Written by Sorush Pakzad, Doozakhrafat, also known as Craposyncrasies, is a book of satirical pieces in Persian, which were posted on his personal blog before publication.
The book includes 107 stories about gods, prophets, and angels and was published in February 2012 by H&S Media.
The publisher included the book among its top-sellers in 2014.” Pakzad’s critical approach towards the religious beliefs in the contemporary practices of Islam caught the attention of many critics.
In his foreword to the book, Ebrahim Nabavi, one of the leading Iranian satirists, contends “I have never seen or heard of a book like Doozakhrafat… it is unique, pleasant, and deep.” In an article published in openDemocracy, Nabavi describes Doozakhrafat as "a unique magnum opus" for its "elegance, charm, and wonder" and praises the author as someone "who knows his job, has read much, is well-informed, and has studied theology and philosophy before fooling around with God."
Nabavi encourages his readers to read the book before they die: “I have read many metaphysical and religious texts and I know the literature quite well.
I have even tried to write along the path myself.
But what Sorush Pakzad has done is way deeper… It has been a while since I have felt so inspired by reading a book.
Elsewhere, Nabavi has described Sorush Pakzad as "an unparalleled talent in satire.
His book, 'Doozakhrafat,' is full of original jokes with the universe, God, humans, the creation, heaven, and hell.
This genre of satire [in Persian literature] has often lacked elegance and grace.".
In an article published by Il Libraio, Doozakhrafat has been praised for its success in introducing a creative level of religious satire, without showing hostility in its language</blockquote>.
Mahmud Farjami, author, journalist, and researcher on Iranian comedy calls Doozakhrafat “an indisputable masterpiece in Persian parody.” Pakzad, Farjami believes, “is not only familiar with religious texts, fictions, and symbolism, but usually draws a parallel style to develop his story… It is difficult to find another book that contains so many original subjects that have been polished so masterfully.” Yaser Mirdamadi, an Iranian scholar of analytic philosophy of religion and epistemology of Islam, in his interview about freedom of expression in ridiculing religion refers to Doozakhrafat as a book that satirizes religious beliefs without humiliation and insult: <blockquote>“[The book] is a successful example of critical religious comedy that, although radical, is not humiliating or offensive.
The critical aspect forces you to think while the comic aspect puts a smile on your face.
The basis of all satirical pieces on religion in this book is to creatively emphasize this fact that the realm of gods, as depicted in religious practices, is humanly and affected by anthropomorphic perceptions of the divine… One might argue that this approach although morally justifiable, is religiously wrong.
It seems that Sorush Pakzad’s critical satire is not only morally inoffensive but also insightful from a religious point of view.”< Roya Sadr, Iran’s leading female satirist and researcher on Persian satire, in her review of the book, points out some of its literary qualities: “The forms are diverse, unbelievably diverse.
The parodies are masterful; moreover, their innovative approach makes them more enjoyable.
The writing is minimalistic and does not bore the reader with unnecessary information.
Every detail is professionally and artistically designed in its correct position.
Even the subtitles are obsessively and thoughtfully picked.
Most of the stories enjoy a precise tone, a theatrical atmosphere, believable dialogues, and a surprise element."
“The form and language of the book,” she concludes, “confirms that the author knows what he is doing and has a well crafted view on the topic… All these qualities mixed with the author’s thorough knowledge of the wide range of subjects touched in the book make Doozakhrafat a rich and insightful piece.” Using Doozakhrafat to open a discussion on the little touched topic of the relationship between satire and religion in Iran, Roya Sadr argues, “[the book] aims to challenge the masses’ superstitious perception of the divine in order to… show how anthropomorphic the images of God and the divine is in religious practices… Doozakhrafat enjoys a strong, deep, and penetrating perspective.
I do not know the author, but Sorush Pakzad shows from this book that he is a unique and unmatched satirist [among his Persian peers].” In a Facebook post, Mehdi Khalaji, a scholar of Islamic studies, admires Doozakhrafat’s “powerful humor.” “I started reading the book this evening,” writes Khalaji, “it’s a powerful satirical work that applies humor to religious material.
Returning the jokes that God plays on us, the book makes fun of God and his kingdom.
Well, what goes around comes around!”
Practical theology is an academic discipline that examines and reflects on religious practices in order to understand the theology that is enacted in those practices and in order to consider how theological theory and theological practices can be more fully aligned, changed, or improved.
Richard Osmer explains that the four key questions and tasks in practical theology are: Practical theology consists of several related sub-fields: applied theology (such as missions, evangelism, religious education, pastoral psychology or the psychology of religion), church growth, administration, homiletics, spiritual formation, pastoral theology, spiritual direction, spiritual theology (or ascetical theology), political theology, theology of justice and peace and similar areas.
It also includes advocacy theology, such as the various theologies of liberation (of the oppressed in general, of the disenfranchised, of women, of immigrants, of children, and black theology).
Practical theology may also include practices of Christians caring for others as Christ cared for the poor.
Dr. Christian D. Boyd also writes about a new perspective of practical theology called "convergent practical theology" which has emerged from the combined studies and practice of missiology with organizational development since the publication of "Missional Church" by Darrell Guder et al.
Charitable choice refers to direct United States government funding of religious organizations to provide social services.
Created in 1996, charitable choice allows government officials to purchase services from religious providers using Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), Welfare-to-Work, and Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) funds.
In late 2000, charitable choice was included in the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration’s (SAMHSA) block grant.
According to the Department of Health and Human Services, Charitable Choice rests on four major principles: Faith-based providers are eligible to compete for funds on the same basis as any other providers, neither excluded nor included because they are religious, too religious or of a different religion.
The religious character of faith-based providers is protected by allowing them to retain control over the definition, development, practice, and expression of their religious beliefs.
Neither federal nor state government can require a religious provider to alter its form of internal governance or remove religious art, icons, scripture or other symbols in order to be a program participant.
In regard to rendering assistance, religious organization shall not discriminate against an individual on the basis of religion, a religious belief, or refusal to actively participate in a religious practice.
If an individual objects to the religious character of a program, a secular alternative must be provided.
All government funds must be used to fulfill the public social service goals, and no direct government funding can be diverted to inherently religious activities such as worship, sectarian instruction, and proselytization.
Some are concerned that charitable choice blurs the separation of church and state and argue that federal financial support of faith-based organizations creates an opportunity for abuse and a potential for funds to flow in a biased way towards groups affiliated with one particular denomination or religious tradition.
In addition, some religious organization such as the Interfaith Alliance are concerned about the impact of charitable choice "on the vitality of the prophetic voice of faith, the integrity of religious autonomy, excessive government entanglement in the affairs of religious institutions and the overarching temptation to abuse religion and manipulate faith to achieve political power."
A religious festival is a time of special importance marked by adherents to that religion.
Religious festivals are commonly celebrated on recurring cycles in a calendar year or lunar calendar.
Hundreds of very different religious festivals are held around the world each year.
Festivals (feriae) were an important part of Roman religious life during both the Republican and Imperial eras, and were one of the primary features of the Roman calendar.
Feriae ("holidays" in the sense of "holy days") were either public (publicae) or private (privatae).
State holidays were celebrated by the Roman people and received public funding.
Feriae privatae were holidays celebrated in honor of private individuals or by families.
The 1st-century BC scholar Varro defined feriae as "days instituted for the sake of the gods."
A deity's festival often marked the anniversary (dies natalis, "birthday") of the founding of the deity's temple, or a rededication after a major renovation.
Public business was suspended for the performance of religious rites on the feriae.
Cicero says that people who were free should not engage in lawsuits and quarrels, and slaves should get a break from their labors.
On calendars of the Republic and early Empire, the religious status of days were marked by letters such as F (for fastus, when it was religiously permissible to conduct legal business), C (for comitialis), a day on which the Roman people could hold assemblies), and N (for nefastus, when political activities and the administration of justice were prohibited).
By the late 2nd century AD, extant calendars no longer show these letters, probably as a result of calendar reforms undertaken by Marcus Aurelius that recognized the changed religious environment of the empire.
On surviving Roman calendars, festivals that appear in large capital letters (such as the Lupercalia and Parilia) are thought to have been the most ancient holidays, becoming part of the calendar before 509 BC.
Some of the oldest festivals are not named for deities.
During the Imperial period, several traditional festivals localized at Rome became less important, and the birthdays and anniversaries of the emperor and his family gained prominence as Roman holidays.
Games (ludi), such as the Ludi Apollinares, were often dedicated to particular deities, but were not technically feriae, although they might be holidays in the modern sense of days off work (dies festi).
After the mid-1st century AD, there were more frequent spectacles and games (circenses) held in the venue called a "circus", in honor of various deities or for imperial anniversaries (dies Augusti).
A religious festival held on a single day, such as the Floralia, might be expanded with games over multiple days (Ludi Florae); the festival of Flora is seen as a precursor of May Day festivities.
A major source for Roman holidays is Ovid's Fasti, a poem that describes and provides origins for festivals from January to June at the time of Augustus.
Because it ends with June, less is known about Roman festivals in the second half of the year, with the exception of the Saturnalia, a religious festival in honor of Saturn on December 17 that expanded with celebrations through December 23.
Probably the best-known Roman festival, some of its customs, such as gift-giving and the prevalence of candles, are thought to have influenced popular celebrations of Christmas.
The central festival of Christianity is Easter, on which Christians celebrate their belief that Jesus Christ rose from the dead on the third day after his crucifixion.
Even for Easter, however, there is no agreement among the various Christian traditions regarding the date or manner of the observance, less for Christmas, Pentecost, or various other holidays.
In the Christian faith both Protestants and Catholics observe certain festivals commemorating events in the life of Christ.
Of these, the two most important are Christmas, which is the Feast of Christ's nativity, and Easter, which marks the anniversary of Christ's resurrection.
Messianic Judaism derives most of its liturgical influences directly from Judaism.
It adds additional elements from the Christian tradition, since most outsiders would consider Christianity a form of Judaism.
Appointed times, called moedim, follow the standard Jewish liturgical calendar, though additional hermeneutical applications are derived in light of the teachings Jesus of Nazareth.
Hindus observe sacred occasions by festive observances.
All festivals in Hinduism are predominantly religious in character and significance.
Some celebrate harvest and the birth of gods or heroes.
Some are dedicated to important events in Hindu mythology.
Many are dedicated to Shiva and Parvati, Vishnu and Lakshmi and Brahma and Saraswati A festival may be observed with acts of worship, offerings to deities, fasting, feasting, vigil, rituals, fairs, charity, celebrations, Puja, Homa, aarti etc.
They celebrate individual and community life of Hindus without distinction of caste, gender or class.
'Utsava' is the Sanskrit word for Hindu festivals, meaning 'to cause to grow 'upward'.
In the Hindu calendar dates are usually prescribed according to the lunar calendar.
In vedic timekeeping, a tithi is a lunar day.
A Jewish holiday (Yom Tov or chag in Hebrew) is a day that is holy to the Jewish people according to Judaism and is usually derived from the Hebrew Bible, specifically the Torah, and in some cases established by the rabbis in later eras.
There are a number of festival days, fast days (ta'anit) and days of remembrance.
The birthday of Guru Ravidass on Magh Purnima (February 7'12) is celebrated as "Guru Ravidass Jayanti" every year.
Saryupareen Brahmins, also known as Sarvarya Brahmins or Saryupariya Brahmins, are North Indian Brahmins residing on the eastern plain of the Sarayu near Ayodhya.
Saryupareen families such as the Tiwari, Tripathi, Pandey, Mishra, Shukla, Dwivedi and Dikshit were involved solely in the research and analysis of Vedas and other religious texts, performing yajnas and other religious practices.
Along with the other Pancha-Gauda Brahmin communities, the Saryupareen traditionally preserve the customs and traditions as prescribed by ancient Hindu canons.
Factors related to and influencing the religiousness of young and emerging adults include religious participation, peer influence, parental influence, and risky behaviors such as gambling, sexual behavior, and delinquency.
Young adulthood is a time when emerging adults question their religious beliefs and need for religious involvement.
During early adulthood, people practice religion less than they did during adolescence with approximately half as frequent attendance of religious events and services.
This drop in religious practice is caused by changes in young adults’ primary location of residence, decreasing interest in religion, increased religious doubts, and greater involvement in non-religious activities.
Consequently, young adults adjust their beliefs and on average become more skeptical of formal or institutional religion than adults or adolescents.
Changes in religious beliefs and participation are also influenced by young adults’ self perceptions and by how religion relates to their various life goals of success, growth, and achievement.
As young adults grow older, their changed religious behaviors and skeptical beliefs revert toward more constant religious involvement and a more stable faith.
Increasingly positive religious attitudes and more frequent religious behavior occur in adults who are thirty or more years old than in young adults in their twenties.
This happens when they settle down and begin to live more stable lives, such as when they get married, graduate from college, find a stable full-time job, and start having children.
Overall, the impact of religious participation on young adults is positive.
Young and emerging adults who participate in religious activities and hold religious beliefs are more likely to have a healthier and more prosperous life.
They are more likely to have positive relationships with their parents, experience less psychological distress, have fewer physical health problems, and experience greater life satisfaction.
In addition, they are more likely to exhibit altruistic behaviors such as volunteering at nursing homes and advocating humanitarian efforts.
There is also a positive correlation between regular religious practices and identity achievement during the young adult years.
Higher self-perceptions of value and competency were positively correlated with the level of religious involvement, and in contrast, those who were less involved in religion reported lower self-esteem and competence.
In a like manner, people with more regular religious participation reported that good morality and conservative values were more important than those who participated less in religious activities.
There are also significant gender differences that exist among young adults who participate in religious activities.
Women tend to benefit more from religious practice than men, and religiosity and self-worth are more positively correlated for women than men during the young adult years.
In addition, women’s identity achievement was more positively correlated with religious practice than men's identity achievement.
This is because men tend to construct their identity from other achievement than from religious involvement and connection to a faith community.
Adolescent men report lower levels of religious participation or association with a particular faith than adolescent women.
Women also report giving religion greater importance and benefiting more from religious practices by than men do.
Although peer groups have been found to play a large role in influencing young adults, the full effect that they have on the young person’s religiousness is still unknown.
Most studies report that peer influence has a very weak effect on the young person’s religiousness.
Parents have been found to have a greater influence on the religiousness of the emerging adult than the peer group.
However, peer groups frequently affect areas aside from religion.
Peers might have an influence on whether or not a young adult attends youth group services or college groups because of the social aspect and the enjoyment of participation, which is largely influenced by their friends in attendance.
Peer influence also affects dating relationships especially in religions that have specific guidelines for interfaith relationships such as the Christian faith.
Decisions to join or leave a denomination for Baptists are greatly influenced by the number and quality of friendships that emerging adults have within that denomination.
Parental influence is arguably the most influential external factor on the religiousness of young and emerging adults, and parents have the ability to shape young people’s views positively or negatively towards religion.
The religion and religious participation of the parent plays a significant role in the young person’s religious practices.
For Jewish emerging adults, the religious participation of their parents significantly impacted their religious beliefs and practices.
This has been shown to extend into adulthood because parents’ church attendance has been said to be the best predictor of college teachers’ religiousness.
Children that have been raised in a family that practices a specific denomination typically stick with that denomination from childhood through young adulthood.
There tends to be stronger agreement between parents and their children on religious issues than other matters such as self-rated happiness.
This agreement doesn’t just occur between parents and their young adult children, but it also occurs for parents and their adult children, meaning that religious beliefs and practices seem to be passed down through the generations.
Parents have been identified as the strongest influence on desire for faith and on religious belief, not only in the United States but in other nations as well, such as Australia.
There has been speculation on whether or not there is a stronger influence from the mother or the father on religiousness.
Of the studies that have been done, findings tend to lean slightly towards the mothers’ role in religious socialization; however both are very influential and important in religious socialization.
In addition, the more active the parents are in their religion the more likely their religious ideals and practices will be transferred down through the generations.
The relationship that the emerging adult had with their parent when they were a child is also likely to influence their religiousness.
If the young adult had a positive, close relationship with their parents, they are more likely to stay within the religious tradition that their parents practice.
The following pertains predominately to young people who associate with the Christians faith.
Religion and spirituality have a significant effect on young adults’ interpretations of and responses to their parents’ divorce when it occurs during their mid-to-late adolescence.
Spiritual experiences these young adults have are tied to their adjustment in early adulthood.
When young people viewed their parent’s divorce as a sacred loss and experienced spiritual struggles, they were more likely to report psychological distress.
Young people who used adaptive spiritual coping strategies were also more likely to report psychological distress.
Adaptive spiritual coping strategies did correlate to greater perceived growth in the individual, and the coping strategies along with viewing the divorce as a sacred loss led to greater perceived spiritual growth in the individual.
The young people who experience spiritual growth as a result of viewing divorce as a sacred loss and applying adaptive coping strategies say that they develop a greater connection with God and grow deeper spiritually.
Religious involvement is positively correlated with marital happiness and negatively associated with marital conflict.
High parental religiousness negatively correlated with divorce, this alludes to the fact that religion might be more of a causal variable than a predictor variable.
In addition, children from families that haven’t experienced divorce are more likely to be religious, maintain religious practices, and report a deeper relationship with God.
Religion is thought by many to play a role in the transition to adulthood, however there has been little research done to find if that is the case.
However, it has been found that as Catholic emerging adults grow up, they are more likely to maintain their beliefs and practices if they attend a Catholic University for college.
Though they might not agree with the entire doctrine as they transition, they still uphold many of the traditions and beliefs they had as a child.
Mormon emerging adults maintain their beliefs and practices more often when they attend a Mormon University for college.
In contrast with the Catholics, Mormons develop a stronger adherence to the doctrine practiced by the Mormon tradition and are more likely than other religions to uphold traditional practices, such as early marriage.
The majority of emerging Mormon adults also still believe that the home (family) is the most important thing in life.
They believe individual wants and needs should be put on hold for the wants and needs of the family, which is something that isn’t practiced by many emerging adults outside of the Mormon faith today.
Risky behavior is something that has long been associated with young and emerging adults.
Sex, gambling, and delinquency are three areas in which religion has been studied with to see if there are any connections between religion, emerging adulthood, and risky behavior.
Gambling is becoming increasingly popular and poses a significant problem to the current generation of emerging adults.
The internet revolution has been a primary contributor to this problem, and the most popular forms of gambling for emerging adults are: internet gambling, sporting event gambling, and lottery tickets.
With the online gambling opportunities that are becoming increasingly available, young people have easier access to gambling and a greater likelihood to developing a gambling addiction.
Internet gambling is the fastest growing area on the internet and is projected to exceed the profits of all of illicit internet industries.
Gambling on sporting events has also become a big problem for emerging adults.
It is very easy to set up a bracket for an upcoming tournament and put some money in a pool with friends for those under age or online for those of age.
It may seem like a trivial gambling enterprise, but a bracket with money riding on it quickly can quickly become an important part of the young adult’s world because there is lot of money at stake.
Young people are beginning to bet at earlier ages on sporting events because betting is something which is simple to do under the table.
Lottery tickets are also popular among emerging adults, especially those who are poor and just out of college.
Of all the people that play the lottery, two-thirds live below the poverty line, which means that they make less than 10,000 dollars a year.
Emerging adults who have developed a gambling addiction have three choices when it comes to religion.
They can turn to religion as a source of help to recover from their addiction, turn away from religion so that they can continue to feed their addiction and not feel guilty about it, or live one life in the world of religion and another in the world of gambling.
One study found that males and those in their mid-to-late-twenties are at the greatest risk for developing a gambling addiction and having more gambling problems.
Identifying as Catholic or “other religious affiliation” appears to put emerging adults at greater risk of developing a gambling problem as well, while identifying as having “no religious affiliation” appeared to have no increased risk.
More frequent religious attendance is associated with about a 40% decrease in the expected number of gambling problems in Catholics.
Abstinence is the foregoing of sex until marriage.
The abstinence pledge is a pledge that goes along with the abstinence-only sex education that is religiously based but taught in secular settings.
Research regarding adolescents that take “the pledge” has found “the pledge” to significantly prolong the age of first sexual experience for non-black and younger adolescents and for those young people with a large, strong support group.
The data suggests that about one in five young adults have taken an abstinence pledge either in written form or by public announcement.
Those who indicate themselves as being more religious, attending services at least once a month if not weekly or more, or identifying religion as being “fairly important” or “very important” in their lives are more likely than their counterparts to pledge.
Although the abstinence pledge might not have a 100% success rate, 27% of the young adults who married at an early age and took the pledge abstain from sex until marriage, and 41% only have pre-marital sex with their future spouse.
Only about 8% of non-pledgers abstain from sex until marriage, and while only 42% of pledgers will have sex with someone they won’t marry, 72% of non-pledgers will.
These numbers indicate that pledgers are less sexually active than their non-pledging counterparts.
It has been concluded by Uecker that many young adults abstain from sex until marriage because they adopt the strict religious teaching from their religion or from a pledging organization (which is most likely religiously based).
The differences between pledgers and non-pledgers are significant.
Religiosity has been found to have a significant effect on young people’s decision on whether or not to postpone sex until marriage.
When religious attendance is increased, the likelihood that the adolescent will abstain from sex increases exponentially, and the same is true for self-reports of importance of religion.
Young adults who attend religious services on a weekly basis or more are eight times less likely to engage in pre-marital sex than those who never attend.
Only about 8% of semi-regular attendees abstain from pre-marital sex, where as 21% of regular attendees abstain until marriage.
Young adults that attend religious services regularly are less likely to have sex with anyone other than their future spouse.
Of the different religious affiliations, Black Protestants are the least likely to remain abstinent until marriage.
There is no difference between Black Protestants and non-religious groups when it comes to abstinence.
Mormons are eight times less likely to engage in pre-marital sex than mainline Protestants with someone other than their future spouse.
Overall, religion has a positive influence on lowering delinquency in young people in conjunction with the home environment that the young person was raised in.
Parenting style and religious involvement interact together.
While supportive family practices have been shown to have a slight effect on delinquency trajectories but when religion is added to the mix the effect is amplified.
Because the effect is amplified, it is reasoned that the religiousness of the home has an effect on the influence of parental affection of delinquency trajectories.
Young people raised in religious families have a much lower chance of participating in delinquent behaviors.
Religion has also been shown to act as a buffer for young people against the stress associated with being raised in a single-parent home.
Religious participation has been shown to be a stronger deterrent for those in their late adolescent years from delinquent behavior for young people raised by single-parents than for those raised in two-parent homes.
Young adults raised in single-parent homes are likely to turn to religious institutions to get the support and social control that isn’t being supplied at home.
The young people from single-parent homes may receive support from their friends in their religious community that aids in deterring them from participating in delinquent activities.
Young people that follow the low level trajectory, meaning that they are predicted to have lower levels of delinquency are more likely to attend religious services than the young adults that follow the higher delinquent behavior trajectory.
A place of worship is a specially designed structure or consecrated space where individuals or a group of people such as a congregation come to perform acts of devotion, veneration, or religious study.
A building constructed or used for this purpose is sometimes called a house of worship.
Temples, churches, and mosques are examples of structures created for worship.
A monastery, particularly for Buddhists, may serve both to house those belonging to religious orders and as a place of worship for visitors.
Natural or topographical features may also serve as places of worship, and are considered holy or sacrosanct in some religions; the rituals associated with the Ganges river are an example in Hinduism.
Under International Humanitarian Law and the Geneva Conventions, religious buildings are offered special protection, similar to the protection guaranteed hospitals displaying the Red Cross or Red Crescent.
These international laws of war bar firing upon or from a religious building.
Religious architecture expresses the religious beliefs, aesthetic choices, and economic and technological capacity of those who create or adapt it, and thus places of worship show great variety depending on time and place.
The word church derives from the Greek ekklesia, meaning the called-out ones.
Its original meaning is to refer to the body of believers, or the body of Christ.
The word church is used to refer to a Christian place of worship by some Christian denominations, including Anglicans and Roman Catholics.
Other Christian denominations, including the Religious Society of Friends, Mennonites, Christadelphians, and some unitarians, object to the use of the word "church" to refer to a building, as they argue that this word should be reserved for the body of believers who worship there.
Instead, these groups use words such as "Hall" to identify their places of worship or any building in use by them for the purpose of assembly.
Religion and geography is the study of the impact of geography, i.e.
place and space, on religious belief.
Another aspect of the relationship between religion and geography is religious geography, in which geographical ideas are influenced by religion, such as early map-making, and the biblical geography that developed in the 16th century to identify places from the Bible.
Traditionally, the relationship between geography and religion can clearly be seen by the influences of religion in shaping cosmological understandings of the world.
From the sixteenth and seventeenth century, the study of geography and religion mainly focused on mapping the spread of Christianity (termed ecclesiastical geography by Issac 1965), though in the later half of the seventeenth century, the influences and spread of other religions were also taken into account.
Other traditional approaches to the study of the relationship between geography and religion involved the theological explorations of the workings of Nature – a highly environmentally deterministic approach which identified the role of geographical environments in determining the nature and evolution of different religious traditions.
Thus, geographers are less concerned about religion per se, but are more sensitive to how religion as a cultural feature affects social, cultural, political and environmental systems.
The point of focus is not the specifics of religious beliefs and practices, but how these religious beliefs and practices are internalised by adherents, and how these processes of internalization influence, and is influenced by, social systems.
Traditional cultural geographical approaches to the study of religion mainly seek to determine religion’s impact on the landscape.
A more contemporary approach to the study of the intersections of geography and religion not only highlights the role of religion in effecting landscape changes and in assigning sacred meanings to specific places, but also acknowledges how in turn, religious ideology and practice at specific spaces are guided and transformed by their location.
Religious experiences and the belief in religious meanings transforms physical spaces into sacred spaces.
These perceptions and imaginings influence the way such spaces are used, and the personal, spiritual meanings developed in using such sacred spaces.
These religiously significant spaces go beyond officially religious/spiritual spaces (such as places of worship) to include non-official religious spaces such as homes, schools and even bodies.
These works have focused on both material aspects of spaces (such as architectural distinctiveness) and socially constructed spaces (such as rituals and demarcation of sacred spaces) to present religious meaning and significance.
A key focus in the study of sacred places is the politics of identity, belonging and meaning that are ascribed to sacred sites, and the constant negotiations for power and legitimacy.
Particularly in multicultural settings, the contestation for legitimacy, public approval, and negotiations for use of particular spaces are at the heart of determining how communities understand, internalise and struggle to compete for the right to practice their religious traditions in public spaces.
Religion may be a starting point to examine issues of ethnic identity formation and the construction of ethnic identity Geographers studying the negotiations of religious identity within various communities are often concerned with the overt articulation of religious identity, for example, how adherents in different locations establish their distinctive (religious and cultural) identities through their own understandings of the religion, and how they externally present their religious adherence (in terms of religious practice, ritual and behaviour).
As an overarching theme, the articulation of religious identity is concerned with material aspects of symbolizing religious identity (such as architecture and the establishment of a physical presence), with negotiations and struggles in asserting religious identity in the face of persecution and exclusion and with personal practices of religious ritual and behaviour that re-establishes one’s religious identity As research on geography and religion has grown, one of the new focuses of geographical research examines the rise of religious fundamentalism, and the resulting impact this has on the geographical contexts in which it develops.
In addition, migration processes has resulted in the development of religious pluralism in numerous countries, and the landscape changes that accompanies the movement and settlement of communities defined by religion is a key focus in the study of geography and religion.
More work needs to be done to examine the intersections and collisions that occur due to the movement of communities (for example, the migration of Muslim communities to western countries) and highlight how these communities negotiate their religious experiences in new spaces.
Another new area of interest in the study of geography and religion explores different sites of religious practice beyond the ‘officially sacred’ – sites such as religious schools, media spaces, banking and financial practices (for example, Islamic banking) and home spaces are just some of the different avenues that take into account informal, everyday spaces that intersect with religious practice and meaning.
Major religions practiced in Gabon include Christianity (Roman Catholicism and Protestantism), Islam, and traditional indigenous religious beliefs.
Many people practice elements of both Christianity and traditional indigenous religious beliefs.
Approximately 73 percent of the population (56% catholic), including noncitizens, practice at least some elements of Christianity; 12 percent practice Islam (mainly Sunni); 10 percent practice traditional indigenous religious beliefs exclusively; and 5 percent practice no religion or are atheists.
Former president El Hadj Omar Bongo Ondimba was a member of the Muslim minority.Hinduism is practised by some foreigners.
The Babongo are a forest people of Gabon on the west coast of equatorial Africa.
They are the originators of the Bwiti religion, based on the consumption of the intoxicating hallucinogenic iboga plant.
For comparison of its spiritual and cultural roles, see ayahuasca aka yage, also botanical alkaloid based, and cannabis in the Rastafari movement.
Other peoples in Gabon have combined traditional Bwiti practices with animism and Christian concepts to produce a very different modern form of Bwiti.
The Bwiti rituals form part of the initiation into the Babongo people.
Babonga people's lives are highly ritualised through dance, music and ceremony associated with natural forces and jungle animals.
Foreign missionaries are active in the country.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respects this right in practice.
The US government received no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice during 2007.
Employment Division, Department of Human Resources of Oregon v. Smith, , is a United States Supreme Court case that determined that the state could deny unemployment benefits to a person fired for violating a state prohibition on the use of peyote, even though the use of the drug was part of a religious ritual.
Although states have the power to accommodate otherwise illegal acts done in pursuit of religious beliefs, they are not required to do so.
Alfred Smith and Galen Black were both members of the Native American Church and counselors at a private drug rehabilitation clinic.
They were both fired because they had ingested peyote, a powerful entheogen, as part of their religious ceremonies as members of the Native American Church.
At that time intentional possession of peyote was a crime under Oregon law without an affirmative defense for religious use.
The counselors filed a claim for unemployment compensation with the state, but the claim was denied because the reason for their dismissal was deemed work-related "misconduct."
The Oregon Court of Appeals reversed that ruling, holding that denying them unemployment benefits for their religious use of peyote violated their right to exercise their religion.
The Oregon Supreme Court agreed, although it relied not on the fact that peyote use was a crime but on the fact that the state's justification for withholding the benefits&mdash;preserving the "financial integrity" of the workers' compensation fund&mdash;was outweighed by the burden imposed on Smith's and Black's exercise of their religion.
The state appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, again arguing that denying the unemployment benefits was proper because using peyote was a crime.
The U.S. Supreme Court left the Oregon Supreme Court's judgment against the disgruntled employees, and returned the case to the Oregon courts to determine whether or not sacramental use of illegal drugs violated Oregon's state drug laws (485 U.S. 660 (1988)).
On remand, the Oregon Supreme Court concluded that while Oregon drug law prohibited the consumption of illegal drugs for sacramental religious uses, this prohibition violated the free exercise clause.
The case returned to the U.S. Supreme Court in this new posture.
The state asked the U.S. Supreme Court to review this second decision of the Oregon Supreme Court, and it agreed to do so.
In earlier rulings, the Court had deliberated that the government could not condition access to unemployment insurance or other benefits on an individual's willingness to give up conduct required by their religion.
However, the Supreme Court did not find that this principle also applied when the conduct in question is justifiably prohibited by law.
For the first time in an unemployment compensation case, the Court found against the believer and for the state.
Of particular importance was the fact that the Oregon law was not directed at the Native Americans' religious practice specifically; thus, it was deemed constitutional when applied to all citizens: "It is a permissible reading of the [free exercise clause]...to say that if prohibiting the exercise of religion is not the object of the [law] but merely the incidental effect of a generally applicable and otherwise valid provision, the First Amendment has not been offended....To make an individual's obligation to obey such a law contingent upon the law's coincidence with his religious beliefs, except where the State's interest is 'compelling' - permitting him, by virtue of his beliefs, 'to become a law unto himself,' contradicts both constitutional tradition and common sense.'
To adopt a true 'compelling interest' requirement for laws that affect religious practice would lead towards anarchy."
The majority opinion was delivered by Justice Scalia.
The First Amendment forbids government from prohibiting the "free exercise" of religion.
This means, of course, that government may not regulate beliefs as such, either by compelling certain beliefs or forbidding them.
Religious belief frequently entails the performance of physical acts&mdash;assembling for worship, consumption of bread and wine, abstaining from certain foods or behaviors.
Government could no more ban the performance of these physical acts when engaged in for religious reasons than it could ban the religious beliefs that compel those actions in the first place.
"It would doubtless be unconstitutional, for example, to ban the casting of statues that are to be used for worship purposes or to prohibit bowing down before a golden calf."
But Oregon's ban on the possession of peyote is not a law specifically aimed at a physical act engaged in for a religious reason.
Rather, it is a law that applies to everyone who might possess peyote, for whatever reason&mdash;a "neutral law of general applicability," in the Court's phrasing.
The Court characterized Smith's and Black's argument as an attempt to use their religious motivation to use peyote in order to place themselves beyond the reach of Oregon's neutral, generally applicable ban on the possession of peyote.
The Court held that the First Amendment's protection of the "free exercise" of religion does not allow a person to use a religious motivation as a reason not to obey such generally applicable laws.
Citing the 1878 Reynolds v. United States decision, "To permit this would be to make the professed doctrines of religious belief superior to the law of the land, and in effect to permit every citizen to become a law unto himself."
Thus, the Court had held that religious beliefs did not excuse people from complying with laws forbidding polygamy, child labor laws, Sunday closing laws, laws requiring citizens to register for Selective Service, and laws requiring the payment of Social Security taxes.
By contrast, the cases in which the Court had allowed a religious motivation to exempt a person from a neutral, generally applicable law involved the assertion of both the right of free exercise along with some other right.
Thus, religious publishers are exempt from a law requiring them to obtain a license if that license may be denied to any publisher the government deems nonreligious.
The government may not tax religious solicitors.
The government may not require the Amish to send their children to school because their religion demands otherwise, and Amish parents, like all parents, have the right to direct the education of their children.
Because Smith and Black were not asserting a hybrid right, they could not claim a religious exemption under the First Amendment from Oregon's ban on peyote.
In the alternative, Smith and Black argued that at the very least, the Court should only uphold Oregon's ban on peyote as applied to them if Oregon had a compelling interest in prohibiting their religious use of peyote.
The Court had, after all, invalidated three other unemployment compensation restrictions under this standard.
But those other restrictions themselves required consideration of individualized circumstances, such as when unemployment compensation was denied to a person who could not, for religious reasons, work on Saturdays.
If a state has in place a system of individualized consideration, the constitution did not allow the state to refuse to extend that system to cases of religious hardship without a compelling reason.
But the difference between the other unemployment cases the Court had decided and Smith's and Black's case was that Oregon's ban on peyote applied to everyone equally&mdash;in other words, it made no room for individualized consideration of the reasons a person might want to use peyote.
Rather than interpret the First Amendment to require the exemption that Smith and Black sought, the Court encouraged them to seek redress in the legislature.
It observed that Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico already specifically exempted religious uses from their otherwise generally applicable peyote bans.
"Just as a society that believes in the negative protection accorded to the press by the First Amendment is likely to enact laws that affirmatively foster the dissemination of the printed word, so also a society that believes in the negative protection afforded to religious belief can be expected to be solicitous of that value in its legislation as well."
To be sure, requiring claims for religious exemptions to be vetted through the legislative process might put less popular religions at a disadvantage.
But the Court held that this situation was preferable to the relative anarchy that would result from "a system in which each conscience is a law unto itself."
Justice O'Connor took issue with the analytical framework the majority had constructed, preferring to apply the traditional compelling interest test to Oregon's ban on peyote.
She agreed with the Court's initial premise that the Free Exercise Clause applied to religiously motivated conduct as well as religious beliefs.
She pointed out, however, that even a so-called neutral law of general applicability imposes a burden on a person's exercise of religion if that law prevents a person from engaging in religiously motivated conduct or requires a person to engage in conduct forbidden by his or her religion.
The First Amendment has to reach both laws that expressly target religion as well as generally applicable laws; otherwise, the law would relegate the constitutional protection of the free exercise of religion to "the barest level of minimum scrutiny that the Equal Protection Clause already provides."
However, First Amendment rights are not absolute.
The law tolerates burdens on the free exercise of religion that serve a compelling governmental interest and are narrowly tailored to meet that interest.
"The compelling interest test effectuates the First Amendment's command that religious liberty is an independent liberty, that it occupies a preferred position, and that the Court will not permit encroachment upon this liberty, whether direct or indirect, unless required by clear and compelling governmental interests of the highest order."
"Thus, the critical question in this case is whether exempting respondents from the State's general criminal prohibition "will unduly interfere with fulfillment of the governmental interest," Justice O'Connor stated.
"Although the question is close, I would conclude that uniform application of Oregon's criminal prohibition is 'essential to accomplish,' its overriding interest in preventing the physical harm caused by the use of a Schedule I controlled substance."
First, Justice O'Connor considered the interest of Smith and Black.
It was not doubted that the exemption from Oregon's ban on peyote was not a pretext for Smith and Black.
It was directly linked to the exercise of their religious beliefs, the sincerity of which the Court does not and should not question.
Peyote is a sacrament in the Native American Church; thus, members must "choose between carrying out the ritual embodying their religious beliefs and avoidance of criminal prosecution.
That choice is ... more than sufficient to trigger First Amendment scrutiny."
Despite this, "Oregon's criminal prohibition represents that state's judgment that the possession and use of controlled substances, even by only one person, is inherently harmful and dangerous," Justice O'Connor stated.
"Because the health effects caused by the use of controlled substances exist regardless of the motivation of the user, the use of such substances, even for religious purposes, violates the very purpose of the laws that prohibit them."
Furthermore, society's interest in preventing trafficking in controlled substances was similarly central to effectuating Oregon's ban on peyote.
Justice O'Connor likewise suggested that Smith and Black seek redress in the state legislature and not the courts, for the fact that other states allow religious use of peyote does not compel Oregon to follow suit.
Indeed, not even Smith and Black disputed that Oregon's interest in outlawing peyote was compelling.
Justice Blackmun agreed with Justice O'Connor that the compelling interest test should apply to Oregon's ban on peyote, but disagreed with her that the ban was supported by a compelling interest that was narrowly tailored.
Blackmun began by "articulat[ing] in precise terms the state interest involved" in the ban.
Blackmun focused narrowly on the state's interest in not exempting religious use from its otherwise generally applicable ban on peyote rather than the state's broader interest in "fighting the critical 'war on drugs.'"
Blackmun framed the issue as he did because "failure to reduce the competing interests to the same plane of generality tends to distort the weighing process in the state's favor."
Blackmun questioned whether Oregon actually did enforce its criminal prohibition on peyote against religious users, noting that it had not actually prosecuted Smith or Black.
Because Oregon had not prosecuted any religious users of peyote, its "asserted interest thus amounts only to the symbolic preservation of an unfettered prohibition.
But a government interest in symbolism, even symbolism for so worthy a cause as the abolition of unlawful drugs, cannot suffice to abrogate the constitutional rights of individuals."
Oregon also claimed an interest in protecting the health and safety of its citizens from the dangers of illegal drug use.
But there was no evidence that religious use of peyote actually harmed anyone.
The fact that peyote was a Schedule I drug did not persuade Blackmun.
The federal government may have placed peyote on Schedule I, but the federal government also tolerated the religious use of peyote.
In addition, other Schedule I drugs (such as cannabis) have lawful uses.
Religious use was not recreational use; the Native American Church ritual in which peyote is consumed is heavily supervised, thus mitigating Oregon's health and safety concerns.
The religious use occurs in a context that harmonizes with the state's general ban.
The Native American Church discourages nonreligious use of peyote, and promotes family harmony, self-reliance, and abstinence from alcohol.
Research suggests that religious use of peyote can help curb "the tragic effects of alcoholism on the Native American population."
And as for the state's interest in abolishing drug trafficking, Blackmun pointed out that there is "practically no illegal traffic in peyote."
Finally, Blackmun expressed concern for "the severe impact of a state's restrictions on the adherents of a minority religion."
Eating peyote is "an act of worship and communion," a "means for communicating with the Great Spirit."
If Oregon is a hostile environment in which to practice the Native American religion, its adherents might be forced to "migrate to some other and more tolerant region."
Blackmun felt it inconsistent with First Amendment values to denigrate an "unorthodox" religious practice in this way.
Congress passed the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) in 1993, which required the application of strict scrutiny.
In response to the Supreme Court's 1997 ruling in City of Boerne v. Flores, which declared the RFRA unconstitutional as applied to the states, Congress passed the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act (RLUIPA) in 2000, which grants special privileges to religious land owners.
(4) In any prosecution under this section for manufacture, possession or delivery of that plant of the genus Lophophora commonly known as peyote, it is an affirmative defense that the peyote is being used or is intended for use: (a) In connection with the good faith practice of a religious belief; (b) As directly associated with religiously done practices; and (c) In a manner that is not dangerous to the health of the user or others who are in the proximity of the user.
(5) The affirmative defense created in subsection (4) of this section is not available to any person who has possessed or delivered the peyote while incarcerated in a correctional facility in this state.
Don Cupitt (born 22 May 1934 in Oldham, Lancashire) is an English philosopher of religion and scholar of Christian theology.
He has been an Anglican priest and a professor of the University of Cambridge, though is better known as a popular writer, broadcaster and commentator.
He has been described as a "radical theologian", noted for his ideas about "non-realist" philosophy of religion.
Cupitt was educated at Charterhouse School in Godalming, Surrey, Trinity Hall, Cambridge, and Westcott House Cambridge.
He studied, successively, natural sciences, theology and the philosophy of religion.
In 1959 he was ordained deacon in the Church of England, becoming a priest in 1960.
After short periods as a curate in the North of England, and as Vice-Principal of Westcott House, Cupitt was elected to a Fellowship and appointed Dean at Emmanuel College, Cambridge late in 1965.
Since then he has remained at the college.
In 1968 he was appointed to a university teaching post in philosophy of religion, a position in which he continued until his retirement for health reasons in 1996.
At that time he proceeded to a Life Fellowship at Emmanuel College, which remains his base today.
In the early 1990s he stopped officiating at public worship and in 2008 he ceased to be a communicant member of the church.
Although he has been a priest, he is better known as a writer, broadcaster and populariser of innovative theological ideas.
He has written 40 books—which have been translated into Dutch, Persian, Polish, Korean, Portuguese, Danish, German and Chinese—as well as chapters in more than 30 multi-authored volumes.
Cupitt came to the British public's attention in 1984 with his BBC television series The Sea of Faith, in which orthodox Christian beliefs were challenged.
He is currently a key figure in the Sea of Faith Network, a group of spiritual "explorers" (based in the United Kingdom, New Zealand and Australia) who share Cupitt's concerns.
In his writings Cupitt sometimes describes himself as Christian non-realist, by which he means that he follows certain spiritual practices and attempts to live by ethical standards traditionally associated with Christianity but without believing in the actual existence of the underlying metaphysical entities (such as "Christ" and "God").
He calls this way of being a non-realist Christian "solar living".
In Chapter 13 of his book "After God:The Future of Religion", Cupitt documents how the gradual disintegration of religious belief and supernatural views of the world has led to the growth of naturalism.
For Cupitt, the abandonment of religion has also been aided by technological advances and the growing number of sources of authority.
Finally, he goes on to argue that many people still hold on to their religious beliefs purely out of 'ethnic loyalty', and that,despite people's best efforts, religion will continue to liquidate.
The Constitution of Burkina Faso provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice.
Government policy contributes to the generally free practice of religion.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice; however, at times community members forced old women falsely accused of being witches to flee their villages.
While exact statistics on religious affiliation are not available and vary widely, the Government estimated in its most recent census (1996) that approximately 60 percent of the population practice Islam, and that the majority of this group belong to the Sunni branch.
The Government also estimated that 24 percent of the population maintains traditional indigenous beliefs, 17 percent practices Roman Catholicism, and 3 percent are members of various Protestant denominations.
Statistics on religious affiliation are approximate because incorporating traditional indigenous beliefs and practices is widespread among both Christians and Muslims.
Muslims reside largely around the northern, eastern, and western borders, while Christians live in the center of the country.
People practice traditional indigenous religious beliefs throughout the country, especially in rural communities.
Most ethnic groups are religiously heterogeneous, although the Fulani and Dioula communities are overwhelmingly Muslim.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
The Government at all levels sought to protect this right in full and did not tolerate its abuse, either by governmental or private actors.
The Constitution and laws protect the right of individuals to choose and change their religion and provide the right to practice the religion of one's choice.
The Government observes and enforces these provisions.
The country is a secular state.
Islam, Christianity, and traditional indigenous religious beliefs were practiced freely without government interference.
There is no official state religion, and the Government neither subsidized nor favored any particular religion.
The practice of a particular religion was not known to confer any advantage or disadvantage in the political arena, the civil service, the military, or the private sector.
The Government establishes the following religious holy days as national holidays: Eid al-Adha, Easter Monday, Ascension Day, the Birth of the Prophet Muhammad, Assumption Day, All Saints' Day, Ramadan, and Christmas Day.
The Government requires all organizations, religious or otherwise, to register with the Ministry of Territorial Administration.
Registration confers legal status, but it entails no specific controls or benefits.
According to article 45 of the Freedom of Association Code, failure to register may result in a fine of approximately $97 to $292 (50,000 CFA to 150,000 CFA).
The Government gives all religious groups equal access to registration and routinely approves their applications.
The Government taxes religious groups only if they engage in commercial activities, such as farming and dairy production.
The Constitution provides freedom of expression in publications and broadcasts, including those by religious groups, unless the judicial system determines that such expression is harming public order or committing slander; the judicial system has never made such a determination.
The Government did not deny a publishing or broadcasting license to any religious group that requested one during the period covered by this report.
Religious organizations operate under the same regulatory framework for publishing and broadcasting rights as other entities.
The Ministry of Security has the right to request samples of proposed publications and broadcasts to verify that they are in accordance with the stated nature of the religious group; however, there were no reports that religious broadcasters experienced difficulties with this regulation.
Additionally, the Government does not grant special tax preferences to religious organizations operating print or broadcast media.
Foreign missionary groups operate freely and face few, if any, restrictions; however, missionary groups occasionally faced complicated bureaucratic procedures in pursuit of particular activities.
Public schools do not offer religious instruction.
Muslim, Catholic, and Protestant groups operate primary and secondary schools.
Although school officials have to submit the names of their directors to the Government and register their schools, religious or otherwise, the Government does not appoint or approve these officials.
The Government does not fund religious schools or require them to pay taxes unless they conduct for-profit activities.
The Government reviews the curriculum of religious schools to ensure that they offer the full standard academic curriculum.
The Government, however, does not interfere with the curriculum of supplemental classes offered by private schools, such as classes on the Bible or the Qur'an.
Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
There were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country.
There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice; however, at times community members forced old women falsely accused of being witches to flee their villages.
The Catholic Church funded-Delwende Center that houses and feeds women accused of witchcraft reported seven cases of this kind.
The Ministry of Social Action and National Solidarity, along with various other nongovernmental and religious organizations, also maintained similar shelters in Ouagadougou.
Some Muslims considered the 1996 law against female genital mutilation (FGM) as discriminating against their religious practices and continued performing the procedure.
Sometimes non-Muslim FGM practitioners performed the procedure during baptismal ceremonies because the baby was expected to cry during the ceremony.
Unlike in previous reports, there were no reports of tensions within sectors of the Muslim community during the period covered by this report.
Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore guarantees freedom of religion in Singapore.
Specifically, Article 15(1) states: "Every person has the right to profess and practise his religion and to propagate it."
The terms profess, practise and propagate are not defined in the Constitution, but cases from Singapore and other jurisdictions may shed light on their meaning.
The word profess in relation to a religion was defined in a 1964 Singapore case not involving the Constitution as meaning "to affirm, or declare one's faith in or allegiance to".
A 2001 Malaysian decision suggested that the profession of religion does not encompass the renunciation of a religion or the profession of an irreligious viewpoint.
As regards the word propagate, in 1977 the Supreme Court of India held that it confers on an individual the right to transmit or spread his or her religion by an exposition of its tenets, but not the right to convert another person who holds a pre-existing religious belief to one's own religion.
These issues have not yet come before the Singapore courts for determination.
On the other hand, in 1999 the Court of Appeal attempted to draw a line between religious practices and secular facts, taking the view that singing the National Anthem and saying the National Pledge were the latter.
Thus, rules that compelled a teacher to engage in these activities in an educational institution could not be regarded as having infringed his right to practise his religion.
Freedom of religion under Article 15(1) is not absolute as it is qualified by Article 15(4) of the Constitution, which provides that the rights secured by Article 15 do not authorize any act contrary to any general law relating to public order, public health or morality.
These limitations upon the freedom of religion are an important aspect of Singapore's secularism.
The Singapore courts have interpreted the term public order to be equivalent to the concepts of "public peace, welfare and good order" referred to in section 24(1)(a) of the , rather than taking the narrower view that public order means freedom from unlawful physical violence.
There has also been academic criticism of the fact that the courts have not applied any form of balancing test to determine whether freedom of religion has been reasonably restricted.
On the contrary, where national security is said to be involved, the courts have deferred to the Government as to the necessity for the restrictive legislation.
The terms public health and morality in Article 15(4) have yet to be judicially interpreted.
Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore is entitled "Freedom of religion" and reads as follows: In Nappalli Peter Williams v. Institute of Technical Education (1999), the Court of Appeal affirmed that the Constitution generally adopts what is known as accommodative secularism by "removing restrictions to one's choice of religious belief".
Article 15(1) is in pari materia with Article 11(1) of the Constitution of Malaysia, from which it was adopted following Singapore's independence from Malaysia in 1965.
The latter states: "Every person has the right to profess and practice his religion and, subject to clause (4), to propagate it."
Article 15(1) also contains similarities to Article 25(1) of the Constitution of India: "Subject to public order, morality and health and to the other provisions of this Part, all persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion."
The word profess in Article 15(1) is not defined in the Constitution, but the case Re Mohamed Said Nabi, deceased (1964) may provide guidance.
The issue in the case was the meaning of the word Muslim in the Muslims Ordinance 1957 which was defined as "a person who professes the religion of Islam".
The High Court held that to come within the definition, one must be shown to be an orthodox Muslim and must have outwardly manifested and practiced Islam; merely having been born into that religion was insufficient.
More specifically, Justice F.A.
Chua referred to the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary and noted that the word profess means "to affirm, or declare one's faith in or allegiance to (a religion, principle, God or Saint etc.)".
However, to determine if one has in fact "professed" a religion, a proper scrutiny of the entire circumstances is necessary.
On the facts, the deceased was brought up as a Muslim, married under Muslim rites, and had held Muslim religious ceremonies in his house which he had taken part in.
This was strong evidence that he professed the religion of Islam, despite the fact that he had also engaged in the heterodox practices of drinking alcohol and eating pork.
The judge held that such practices did not amount to a renunciation of the religion, and added that someone who had been born into the religion must be held to be a member of that religion unless it is proved he has adopted some other religion.
The Malaysian interpretation of the term profess in Article 11(1) of the Malaysian Constitution may be relevant as that provision is worded similarly to Article 15(1) of the Singapore Constitution.
In Daud bin Mamat v. Majlis Agama Islam (2001), it was held that the act of exiting one's religion does not fall under the meaning of professing and practising one's religion.
In the judge's view, "to accept that professing no religion equated to 'a religion' or the 'right to profess and practice it' would stretch the definition in Article 11 too far".
On the other hand, it might be argued that the freedom to renounce one's religion or to profess not to have a religion is a corollary of the freedom to profess a religion.
This issue has not yet come before the Singapore courts for determination.
The Constitution is also silent on what constitutes practising a religion for the purposes of Article 15(1).
The local courts have defined the word practise by indicating what types of acts are not considered religious practices.
In Nappalli, the Court of Appeal held that singing of the National Anthem and reciting the National Pledge were not religious practices but rather expressions of national patriotism, which were secular acts.
The Canadian case Donald v. The Board of Education for the City of Hamilton (1945) was distinguished; in that case, singing the national anthem was held to constitute a religious practice because the anthem contained a prayer hymn which "unquestionably reflected some religious character".
In Nappalli, the appellant was dismissed from an educational institution for his refusal to participate in the aforementioned acts.
Central to his claim was the submission that these acts were religious practices that went against his belief as a Jehovah's Witness and thus infringed his constitutional right to practice and profess his religion guaranteed by Article 15.
However, the Court held that since "religion" in Singapore under the Constitution is restricted to "a citizen's faith in a personal God" and does not include "a system of belief in one's own country", the acts in question were not religious practices.
Hence, the appellant's rights had not been contravened.
The Court took the view that "the appellant's interpretation of the pledge and anthem ceremony as a religious ceremony was a distortion of secular fact into religious belief".
If the appellant's interpretation was correct, this would result in Article 15(1) losing operative effect, for "[h]ow can the same Constitution guarantee religious freedom if, by asking citizens to pledge their allegiance to country, it is (as the appellant suggests) coercing participation in a religious ceremony?
This excruciatingly absurd interpretation cannot have been what was envisaged by the authors of the Constitution."
The courts in Malaysia have taken a similar approach in defining the meaning of religious practice under Article 11 of the Malaysian Constitution.
Furthermore, they have also consulted religious texts to determine what type of acts might constitute religious practices.
In Halimatussaadiah v. Public Service Commission, Malaysia (1992), the appellant claimed she had been wrongfully dismissed from her employment due to her refusal to comply with employment conditions that prohibited any attire that covered a female public servant's face while on duty.
According to the appellant, this contravened her right to religious practice on grounds that the wearing of the purdah was part of her religious practice as a Muslim.
However, the court disagreed and held that the purdah was not considered a religious practice as it was not a requirement under Islam since there was no express mention of such a requirement in the Quran.
However, in the Philippines, the courts have accorded the individual autonomy to decide what constitutes religious practice.
It is up to the individual to decide what constitutes religious practice so long as such acts do not offend public interest.
This was the view proffered in Ebralinag v. Superintendent of Schools of Cebu (1993), in which the issue was whether the petitioners, who were Jehovah's Witnesses, ought to be expelled from schools for refusing to salute the flag, sing the national anthem and recite the oath of allegiance as required by the Republic Act No.
1265 of 11 July 1955 and other legislation.
Cruz J. held that the state could not interpret the Bible for the petitioners as "only they can read it as they see fit.
Right or wrong, the meaning they derive from it cannot be revised or reversed except perhaps by their own acknowledged superiors.
But certainly not the State.
It has no competence in this matter."
Singapore courts have not yet interpreted the word propagate in Article 15(1) of the Constitution.
Article 25(1) of the Indian Constitution, which is in the same terms as in Article 15(1) of the Singapore Constitution, guarantees to individuals the right to freely "profess, practise and propagate" their religions.
The term propagate was considered by the Supreme Court of India in Stanislaus v. State of Madhya Pradesh (1977).
The Court adopted a dictionary definition of propagate, which was "to transmit or spread from person to person or from place to place".
Accordingly, it held that the word as used in Article 25(1) confers on an individual the right to transmit or spread one's religion by an exposition of its tenets.
In other words, an individual has the right to spread his or her religion by explaining to others the principles and beliefs underlying that particular religion.
However, in the Court's opinion Article 25(1) does not confer the right to convert another person who holds a pre-existing religious belief to one's own religion as this would impinge on the "freedom of conscience" provided for in the Article, which accords each individual with the freedom to hold or consider a thought, fact or viewpoint independent from those of others.
In short, the constitutional right to propagate one's own religion is protected insofar as an individual who exercises this right respects the freedom of persons following other religions.
The Indian jurist Hormasji Maneckji Seervai has criticized Stanislaus and has said it should be overruled.
He argued that when a person propagates his religion to another, that act does not violate the other person's free conscience but allows that person an opportunity to freely choose a religion: Under Article 15(4) of the Constitution, a person's freedom of religion can be restricted by a general law relating to public order, public health or morality.
The term general law is not defined in the Constitution, but may refer to a law that applies to all persons or places belonging to a particular class.
The restrictions on freedom of religion are an important reflection of Singapore's secularism.
Although the Constitution does not express the doctrine of secularism explicitly, the report of the 1966 Constitutional Commission described Singapore as a "democratic secular state".
Singapore's secularism is similar to France's secularism in that both models seek to "protect the state from religion".
However, unlike in Singapore, the principle of secularism in France is constitutionally expressed.
In being secular, the Government of Singapore does not reject religion.
Instead, it has been said to practise "accommodative secularism".
The Government's adherence to secularism has been criticized in that the unwritten principle of secularism has trumped the constitutional protection of freedom of religion.
For instance, in 2002 a controversy arose upon the suspension of four Muslim girls from school when their parents insisted that they wear the tudung (Islamic headscarf) to national schools.
Section 61 of the Education Act empowers the Minister for Education to regulate schools, including prohibiting students from wearing anything not forming part of an official school uniform.
The parents of the schoolgirls took the view that the Ministry of Education's school uniform policy was unconstitutional as it violated the girls' freedom of religion under Article 15(1).
While the parents eventually did not pursue legal proceedings against the Ministry, the controversy showed the Singapore Government's steadfastness in insisting on secularism and the difficulties in reconciling secularism and freedom of religion in Singapore.
The term public order is not defined in the Constitution but has been judicially deliberated in a series of important legal cases involving the Singapore Congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses.
In Chan Hiang Leng Colin v. Public Prosecutor (1994), the Minister of Home Affairs had deregistered the Jehovah's Witnesses by Order No.
179/1972 made pursuant to section 24(1)(a) of the Societies Act.
This provision allows for the dissolution of registered organizations considered to be threats to public peace, welfare or good order.
The Minister had also made Order No.
123/1972 and Order No.
405/1994 pursuant to section 3(1) of the Undesirable Publications Act, prohibiting publications by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society relating to the Jehovah's Witnesses.
The appellants were convicted in a district court for possession of prohibited publications.
They appealed and sought to challenge the constitutionality of the Minister's prohibition order and the deregistration of the Jehovah's Witnesses, arguing that their right to freedom of religion guaranteed by Article 15(1) of the Constitution had been infringed.
Counsel for the appellants submitted that the Jehovah's Witnesses in Singapore were a small, non-violent group and that there was no evidence their activities were against public order in any manner.
He relied on the Malaysian case Tan Boon Liat v. Menteri Hal Ehwal Dalam Negeri, Malaysia (1976), which considered the meaning of public order in the context of section 4(1) of the Emergency (Public Order and Prevention of Crime) Ordinance 1969 (Malaysia): Chief Justice Yong Pung How rejected this conception of public order.
He noted that Singapore had a policy of compulsory military service known as National Service, and that the Minister had taken the view that the continued existence of the Singapore Congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses, which held the belief that military service was forbidden, was contrary to public peace, welfare and good order.
As such, since the Minister had formed the view that the Jehovah's Witnesses were a threat to national security, it was not open to the court to take a different view on the matter.
Yong C.J.
said in his judgment: "I could not see how the concept of public order as envisaged under Art 15(4) is dissimilar to the notion of public peace, welfare and good order within s 24(1)(a) of the Societies Act."
He emphasized that the right to religious freedom was not an absolute right as it was subject to the inherent limitations set out in Article 15(4).
The right of freedom of religion had to be reconciled with the "right of the state to employ the sovereign power to ensure peace, security and orderly living, without which the constitutional guarantee of civil liberty would be a mockery".
Accordingly, the appeal was dismissed.
In 1995, the Minister for Information and the Arts made Order No.
405/1995 banning materials published by the International Bible Students Association, an organization associated with the Jehovah's Witnesses.
In Chan Hiang Leng Colin v. Minister for Information and the Arts (1995), the plaintiffs sought leave to apply for an order of certiorari to quash the order, alleging that it was ultra vires as it contravened, among other things, Article 15(1) of the Constitution.
Presiding over the case in the High Court, Justice Judith Prakash referred to Yong C.J.
's holding in Chan Hiang Leng Colin v. P.P.
(1994) concerning the meaning of public order.
In a 1995 commentary on Chan Hiang Leng Colin v. P.P.
(1994), Professor Thio Li-ann noted that in other jurisdictions a lack of public order includes the notion of "endangerment to human life and safety as well as the disruption of public tranquillity", and argued that "[t]o establish that public order is threatened, it appears that some degree of violence or unlawful physical violence must be shown".
Using this as a point of reference, she criticized Yong C.J.
's equation of public order with "public peace, welfare or good order".
The Singapore courts have not yet interpreted the meaning of the terms public health and morality in Article 15(4).
The UK case of R. (Ghai) v. Newcastle City Council (2009) is therefore interesting for purposes of comparison.
The claimant, an orthodox Hindu, applied to his local authority for land to be dedicated for traditional open air funeral pyres.
The local authority refused the request, relying on subsidiary legislation that made it an offence to burn human remains other than in a crematorium.
The claimant then applied for judicial review, submitting that the decision infringed his right to manifest his religion or belief which was protected by Article 9(1) of the European Convention on Human Rights.
The High Court found that the statutory interference with the claimant's right was justified as it was necessary for the protection of public morals and of the rights and freedoms of others.
The Court of Appeal reversed the judgment on grounds unrelated to Article 9, holding that open air pyres were permissible on a proper construction of the legislation.
In Chan Hiang Leng Colin v. P.P.
(1994), counsel for the appellants argued that there had to be a "clear and immediate danger" to public order before the right of freedom of religion could be restricted, and in this case the restriction was unjustified since there had been no such threat at all.
However, Yong C.J.
said that attempt to apply the "clear and immediate danger" test was misplaced: However, Yong C.J.
did not articulate any alternative test for determining if a restriction upon freedom of religion is appropriate.
Quoting Malaysian Chief Justice Hashim Yeop Sani's judgment in the case Minister for Home Affairs, Malaysia v. Jamaluddin bin Othman (1989), he agreed that "[t]he freedom to profess and practise one's religion should not be turned into a licence to commit unlawful acts or acts tending to prejudice or threaten the security of the country".
Yong C.J.
considered that since "the sovereignty, integrity and unity of Singapore are undoubtedly the paramount mandate of the Constitution", religious beliefs and practices which tended to run counter to these objectives had to be restrained.
In the appeal against Prakash J.
's judgment to the Court of Appeal, also called Chan Hiang Leng Colin v. Minister for Information and the Arts (1996), counsel for the appellants argued that the restriction placed by the Minister on the importation, sale and distribution of the Jehovah's Witnesses publications was too wide and disproportionate.
Applying an approach similar to that taken in Chan Hiang Leng Colin v. P.P.
(1994), the Court of Appeal noted that the appellants were essentially seeking to challenge the view taken by the Minister that Jehovah's Witnesses' refusal to carry out National Service was a threat to national security.
The Court regarded this as a non-justiciable issue and declined to allow the appellants to bring an application for judicial review of Order No.
405/1995.
Professor Thio Li-ann has argued that since Article 15(1) is the general statement of principle that guarantees freedom of religion while Article 15(4) is an exception to the general principle, Yong C.J.
's assertion that "actions undertaken or flowing from [religious] beliefs must conform with the general law relating to public order and social protection" is incorrect.
In making a case against judicial deference and for judicial balancing of interests, she says: In Thio's view, courts should adopt a three-step proportionality approach when interpreting constitutional fundamental liberties.
A judge should first "identify the interests behind two competing rights eg the value of religious liberty as a source of private and public virtue as well as being an aspect of free conscience as against the value of having public order and a stable environment.
Secondly, these factors are all to be placed on the Libra-like balancing scales of justice so that their merits and demerits can be assessed against each other.
... Thirdly, all things considered, the Judge is to deliver his judgment as to where the balance should lie."
In the light of this approach, Yong C.J.
's acceptance of the Minister's view "as conclusive, refusing to question it on the basis of not wanting to transgress the legal/merits dichotomy" resulted in a failure to balance the interest of the appellants against that of the State.
The situation in Singapore may be contrasted with the application of a proportionality analysis in other jurisdictions vis-à-vis the constitutional protection of freedom of religion.
Section 2(a) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms states that the freedom of conscience and religion is a fundamental freedom enjoyed by everybody.
It is subject to section 1: "The rights and freedoms set out in the Canadian Charter are subject only to such reasonable limits prescribed by law as can be demonstrably justified in a free and democratic society."
In the important decision R. v. Oakes (1986), the Supreme Court of Canada held that a two-part test must be satisfied before a limitation infringing a right can be "saved" by section 1.
First, the limitation must have "an objective related to concerns which are pressing and substantial in a free and democratic society"; and, second, it must be shown "that the means chosen are reasonable and demonstrably justified".
The second part is described as a "proportionality test" which requires the invoking party to show: In Multani v. Marguerite-Bourgeoys (Commission scolaire) (2006), the issue was whether a ban in a public school on Sikh students carrying kirpans (ceremonial daggers) for religious purposes was justifiable.
Justice Louise Charron, who delivered the Court's majority opinion, applied the Oakes test to section 2(a) of the Charter.
She held that the school could not discharge its burden of proving that prohibiting the kirpan was a reasonable limit on the student's constitutional freedom of religion.
The UK Human Rights Act 1998 makes Article 9(1) of the European Convention on Human Rights, which protects freedom of religion, enforceable in UK domestic law.
Article 9(2) states when the freedom of religion may be restricted: "Freedom to manifest one's religion or beliefs shall be subject only to such limitations as are prescribed by law and are necessary in a democratic society in the interests of public safety, for the protection of public order, health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others."
R. (Begum) v. Headteacher and Governors of Denbigh High School (2006) was a House of Lords case involving a female Muslim student who wished to wear a jilbab (a long, coat-like garment) to comply with her understanding of the requirements of her faith, but was disallowed from doing so.
Lord Bingham of Cornhill said that under Article 9(2), for a restriction to be justified it must be "prescribed by law and necessary in a democratic society for a permissible purpose, that is, it must be directed to a legitimate purpose and must be proportionate in scope and effect".
In the end, a majority of the Law Lords hearing the appeal (including Lord Bingham) held that the appellant's rights had not been interfered with.
However, the court held unanimously that even if they had been, there were justifiable grounds for such interference, one of which was the need to protect the rights of other female students at the school who would not wish to be pressured into adopting a more extreme form of Muslim dress.
In Prince v. President of the Law Society of the Cape of Good Hope (2002), the appellant challenged, among other things, the constitutionality of the South African Drugs and Drug Trafficking Act 1992 before the Constitutional Court of South Africa.
He claimed that his religion – the Rastafari movement – required him to use cannabis and argued that the Act, which prohibited the possession of this drug, infringed his right to freedom of religion protected by section 15 of Chapter 2 of the Constitution of South Africa.
Similar to section 1 of the Canadian Charter, section 36(1) of the South African Constitution provides: Justice Sandile Ngcobo, writing for the minority, said that "[t]he limitation analysis ... involves the weighing up of competing values and ultimately an assessment based on proportionality", and that in weighing competing interests and evaluating proportionality it was "necessary to examine the relation between the complete ban on the sacramental use or possession of cannabis by the Rastafari and the purpose of the limitation as well as the existence of the less restrictive means to achieve this purpose".
Ultimately, though, a majority of the Court held that although the appellant's freedom of religion had been infringed, the infringement was justifiable in that the restriction was proportionate to the "war on drugs" policy of the State – a general exemption for religious purposes would be virtually impossible to police and would interfere materially with the government's ability to enforce its drug control legislation, and other proposed control schemes would be administratively unworkable.
A key distinction between the bills of rights of the Commonwealth jurisdictions referred to above and the Singapore Constitution is that in the latter document, the grounds set out in Article 15(4) for restricting freedom of religion are not expressly subject to any requirement of reasonableness or necessity in a democratic society.
One may query whether this is sufficient justification for a Singapore court to decline to apply a proportionality analysis to Article 15(4).
An applicant has the burden of proving that a legislative restriction on the freedom of speech has nothing to do with public order, public health or morality.
There must be some substance in the applicant's complaint – the Government does not have an immediate duty to justify making a decision that restricts the applicant's right to freedom of speech simply because the applicant complains of an alleged infringement of Article 15(1).
Propagation of religion is not protected when it amounts to an act contrary to any general law relating to public order, public health, or morality under Article 15(4) of the Constitution.
In Public Prosecutor v. Koh Song Huat Benjamin (2005), a District Court held that the right to propagate an opinion is not an unfettered right: In Public Prosecutor v. Ong Kian Cheong (2009), the District Court said that the above statement, which referred to opinions on race, applied with equal force to insensitive and denigrating opinions about religious beliefs.
The case involved two accused persons who were convicted under the Sedition Act and the Undesirable Publications Act for distributing religious literature that was considered seditious and objectionable to Muslims.
Section 3(1)(e) of the Sedition Act defines a seditious tendency as including a tendency to "promote feelings of ill-will and hostility between different races or classes of the population of Singapore".
In the course of spreading their own faith, the accused persons had offended public order by distributing religious materials that were objectionable to Muslims, and the Court regarded this to be beyond the bounds of the constitutional right to propagate religion.
The Court was of the view that although a person is free to choose his or her own religion and to practise it, religious fervour to spread faith must be constrained by considerations of sensitivity, tolerance and mutual respect for the faith and religious beliefs of another.
Individuals cannot claim to be ignorant of the sensitivity of race and religion in Singapore's multi-racial and multi-religious society.
Larissis v. Greece (1999) points to other grounds on which the right to propagate one's religion might reasonably be restricted in Singapore.
In that case, the European Court of Human Rights accepted that the right to try to persuade another of one's own religious beliefs is included in the "right to manifest [one's] religion or belief" provided for by Article 9(1) of the European Convention on Human Rights.
However, this right is not void of limitations.
Article 9(2) of the Convention prescribes limitations to the freedom to manifest one's religion "in the interests of public safety, for the protection of public order, health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others".
The Court clarified that Article 9(1) does not protect improper proselytism, such as when one offers material or social advantages to entice another to adopt certain religious beliefs, or when one applies improper pressure with a view to gaining new members for a religious group.
On the facts of the case, the Court found that Article 9 had not been infringed by the prosecution of three air force officers for proselytizing to their subordinates, since the hierarchical nature of military life meant it was difficult for a subordinate to rebuff the approaches of persons of superior rank.
Thus, a conversation which might be regarded as a harmless exchange of ideas in a civilian context could be seen in a military setting as harassment or the imposition of undue pressure in abuse of power.
In addition to Article 15, there are other provisions in the Constitution that protect religious freedom.
Article 12(2) prohibits discrimination against Singapore citizens on the ground of, among others, religion in any law; in the appointment to any office or employment under a public authority; or in the administration of any law relating to the acquisition, holding or disposition of property, or the establishing or carrying on of any trade, business, profession, vocation or employment.
Related to this is Article 16, subsection (1) of which prohibits discrimination against citizens of Singapore on the ground only of, among others, religion in the administration of public educational institutions (and, in particular, as regards the admission of students or the payment of fees), and in providing financial aid from public funds for the maintenance or education of students in any educational institution.
The Constitution declares that religious groups have the right to establish and maintain institutions for the education of children and to provide them religious instruction in those institutions, but provides that people cannot be discriminated against on the ground only of religion in laws relating to such institutions or the administration of such laws.
Furthermore, no person may be compelled to receive instruction in or take part in any ceremony or act of worship of a religion apart from his or her own.
The Government has a constitutional responsibility "constantly to care for the interests of the racial and religious minorities in Singapore".
In particular, the Government must exercise its functions in such a way as to recognize the special position of the Malays, the indigenous people of Singapore.
Accordingly, it has the responsibility to "protect, safeguard, support, foster and promote their political, educational, religious, economic, social and cultural interests and the Malay language."
The Constitution also requires the Legislature to enact legislation to regulate Muslim religious affairs and to establish a council to advise the President concerning matters relating to Islam.
The legislation in question is the Administration of Muslim Law Act.
Khattar Kaka'k Tarang is a collection of short stories written by Professor Hari Mohan Jha.
These stories were originally published in a Maithili periodical called Mithila Mihir.
Later, the stories were compiled into a book and published as Khattar Kaka'k Tarang.The stories are considered as the best among Hari Mohan Jha's books.
The stories published in this book caused hue and cry from various section of people of the Mithila region.
The stories are basically satires on the ignorance of people about the actual principles of religion, religious texts and religious practices.
The stories were written when the Brahmin domination was damaging the local culture of Mithila.
Still, they were quite popular in the 1980s, when they were added into the matriculation syllabus of the Bihar School Examination Board.
These were equally enjoyed as the short stories of Gunu Jha, the mithila's reply to the Birbal & Tenalirama.
Murari Lal Sharma (nom de plume, "Neeras") (b.
19 September 1936) is an Indian author and poet.
Sharma was born in the village of Koka, in the district of Rohtak, in the state of Haryana in India.
He is an alumnus of Ahir College Rewari.
Following his college education, his interest in Ayurvedic medicine led him to obtain a degree in the subject as an Ayurveda Ratan.
Initially an educator, Sharma was employed with the Delhi government as a "Special Grade Teacher" until his retirement in 1995.
Sharma has produced both original works and translations of religious texts.
His translations include Neeras ki Shri Durga Upasana, translating the Hindu religious text Shri Durga Saptashati into Hindi verses, and Neeras ki Shri Gita, which similarly translates the Hindu religious text Shreemad Bhagwad Geeta.
His poetry includes works such as O Deepak Tum Jalte Rahna!
and Desh Ko Naveen Tyaag Chaahiye!
Sharma is also a children's author, producing both original poetry and translations of famous English-language stories and poems for a younger audience, such as a translation of The Arab and His Camel.
The constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respected this right in practice.
Government policy continued to contribute to the generally free practice of religion.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Cape Verde is an archipelago consisting of 10 islands, 9 of which are inhabited.
It has an area of and a population of 458,000, according to the National Statistics Institute.
More than 85 percent of the population is nominally Roman Catholic, according to an informal poll taken by local churches.
The largest Protestant denomination is the Church of the Nazarene.
Other groups include the Seventh-day Adventist Church, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), the Assemblies of God, the Universal Church of the Kingdom of God, and various other Pentecostal and evangelical groups.
There are small Bahá'í communities and a small but growing Muslim community.
The number of atheists is estimated at less than 1 percent of the population.
There is no association between religious differences and ethnic or political affiliations; however, the Catholic hierarchy is sympathetic to the Movement for Democracy (MPD) party, which ruled the country from 1991 to 2001.
While many Catholics once were hostile toward the Party for the Independence of Cape Verde (PAICV), which became the governing party in 2001, some have become supporters of the PAICV due to conflict within the MPD party and dissatisfaction over the latter's performance.
There were foreign missionary groups operating in the country.
The constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respected this right in practice.
The government at all levels sought to protect this right in full and did not tolerate its abuse, either by governmental or private actors.
The constitution protects the right of individuals to choose and change their religion and to interpret their religious beliefs for themselves.
The Penal Code, which entered into force in 2004, states that violations of religious freedom are crimes subject to a penalty of between 3 months' and 3 years' imprisonment.
There is no state religion.
The constitution provides for the separation of church and state and prohibits the state from imposing any religious beliefs and practices.
The Catholic Church enjoys a privileged status in national life.
For example, the government provides the Catholic Church with free television broadcast time for religious services.
Also, the government observes the Christian holy days of Ash Wednesday, Good Friday, Easter, All Saints' Day, and Christmas as official holidays.
Furthermore, each municipality has a holiday to honor its patron saint.
The government does not observe any other religious holidays.
The constitution provides for freedom of association.
All associations, whether religious or secular, must register with the Ministry of Justice to be recognized as legal entities.
Registration is mandatory under the constitution and the law of associations.
There are no special incentives for registering and failure to do so has not resulted in penalty or prosecution.
One disadvantage of not registering is the inability of unregistered groups to apply for government or private loans and benefits as an association.
To register, a religious group must submit to the Ministry of Justice a copy of its charter and statutes, signed by the members of the group.
The constitution sets forth the criteria for all associations, including religious ones, and states that the association may not be military or armed; may not be aimed at promoting violence, racism, xenophobia, or dictatorship; and may not be in violation of the penal law.
Failure to register with the Ministry of Justice does not result in any restriction on religious belief or practice.
Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
There were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country.
There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Dettmer v. Landon, 799 F.2d 929 (4th Cir.
1986), is a court case in which the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit held that although Wicca was a religion, it was not a violation of the First Amendment to deny a prisoner access to ritual objects.
The plaintiff, Herbert Daniel Dettmer, was a Virginia prisoner, and a member of the School of Wicca.
Dettmer desired access to ritual objects, including several varieties of knife, with which to practice Wiccan rituals.
Knives, of course, are not available to prisoners.
When the state would not provide him these ritual objects, he sued Robert Landon, the Director of the Virginia Department of Corrections in federal court to get access to objects he claimed were necessary for his religious practice.
The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia decided in Dettmer's favor, finding that Wicca was a religion, rejecting the argument put forward by the Department of Correction that it was merely a "conglomeration" of occult practices.
This decision was appealed to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, and was argued before the appellate court in April 1986.
The Fourth Circuit, in a decision by Senior Circuit Judge John D. Butzner, Jr., affirmed the district court's ruling that Wicca was a religion, but vacated the injunction.
The appellate court considered but rejected the claims of the government about Wicca itself, which included that Wicca was a mere "conglomeration" of "various aspects of the occult, such as faith healing, self-hypnosis, tarot card reading, and spell casting, none of which would be considered religious practices standing alone," and that even if Dettmer's beliefs were religious, the rituals were not.
The conclusion of the Fourth Circuit was that the District court had found that Dettmer had a religious belief entitled to full First Amendment protections, but that he was not entitled to an injunction, since "[t]he decision to prohibit Dettmer from possessing the items that he sought did not discriminate against him because of his unconventional beliefs."
While not entirely a victory for Dettmer, this was the first time Wicca was recognized by a court of law as a legitimate religion.
Anthropology of religion is the study of religion in relation to other social institutions, and the comparison of religious beliefs and practices across cultures.
In the early 11th century, Abū Rayhān Bīrūnī (973-1048), wrote detailed comparative studies on the anthropology of religions and cultures across the Middle East, Mediterranean and the Indian subcontinent.
He discussed the peoples, customs, and religions of the Indian subcontinent.
Anthropology circa 1940 assumed that religion is in complete continuity with magical thinking, that it is a cultural product,.
The complete continuity between magic and religion has been a postulate of modern anthropology at least since early 1930s.
The perspective of modern anthropology towards religion is the projection idea, a methodological approach which assumes that every religion is created by the human community that worships it, that "creative activity ascribed to God is projected from man."
In 1841, Ludwig Feuerbach, was the first to employ this concept as the basis for a systematic critique of religion.
A prominent precursor in the formulation of this projection principle was Giambattista Vico, and an early formulation of it is found in ancient Greek writer Xenophanes, which observed that "the gods of Ethiopians were inevitably black with flat noses while those of the Thracians were blond with blue eyes."
In 1912 Émile Durkheim, building on Feuerbach, considered religion "a projection of the social values of society," "a means of making symbolic statements about society," "a symbolic language that makes statements about the social order"; in short, "religion is society worshiping itself".
In the 19th century, cultural anthropology was dominated by an interest in cultural evolution; most anthropologists assumed that there was a simple distinction between “primitive” and “modern” religion and tried to provide accounts of how the former evolved into the latter.
In the 20th century most anthropologists rejected this approach.
Today the anthropology of religion reflects the influence of, or an engagement with, such theorists as Karl Marx, Sigmund Freud, Émile Durkheim, and Max Weber.
They are especially concerned with how religious beliefs and practices may reflect political or economic forces; or the social functions of religious beliefs and practices.
One major problem in the anthropology of religion is the definition of religion itself.
At one time anthropologists believed that certain religious practices and beliefs were more or less universal to all cultures at some point in their development, such as a belief in spirits or ghosts, the use of magic as a means of controlling the supernatural, the use of divination as a means of discovering occult knowledge, and the performance of rituals such as prayer and sacrifice as a means of influencing the outcome of various events through a supernatural agency, sometimes taking the form of shamanism or ancestor worship.
According to Geertz, religion is "(1) a system of symbols which acts to (2) establish powerful, pervasive, and long-lasting moods and motivations in men by (3) formulating conceptions of a general order of existence and (4) clothing these conceptions with such an aura of factuality that (5) the moods and motivations seem uniquely realistic" (Geertz 1966).
Today, religious Anthropologists debate, and reject, the cross-cultural validity of these categories (often viewing them as examples of European primitivism).
Anthropologists have considered various criteria for defining religion &ndash; such as a belief in the supernatural or the reliance on ritual &ndash; but few claim that these criteria are universally valid.
Anthony F.C.
Wallace proposes four categories of religion, each subsequent category subsuming the previous.
These are, however, synthetic categories and do not necessarily encompass all religions.
The debate on religiosity and intelligence explores the link between religiosity and issues related to intelligence and educational level (by country and on the individual level).
"Religiosity" may include religious beliefs, practices or affiliations.
A meta-analysis has found a negative correlation between IQ and religiosity.
On the individual level, education level is positively correlated with a belief in a god in African countries, and negatively correlated in Western countries.
The frequency of church visits is however positively correlated with education level in English-speaking countries as well as in Protestant Europe.
Some studies have shown a correlation between national average IQ and atheism in society.
However, others have questioned whether there is a causative link, or whether any correlations are due to a complex range of social, economic and historical factors, which interact with religion and IQ in different ways.
For example, national wealth has a stronger correlation with intelligence than national religiosity.
Less developed and poorer countries tend to be more religious, perhaps because religions play a more active social, moral and cultural role in those countries.
Religions in wealthy countries used to have a more specific moral and spiritual role.
Intelligence is a property of the mind that encompasses many related abilities, such as the capacities to reason, to plan, to solve problems, to think abstractly, to comprehend ideas, to use language, and to learn.
There are several ways to more specifically define intelligence.
In some cases, intelligence may include traits such as creativity, personality, character, knowledge, or wisdom.
However, some psychologists prefer not to include these traits in the definition of intelligence.
A widely researched index or classification of intelligence among scientists is Intelligence Quotient (IQ).
IQ is a summary index, calculated by testing individuals' abilities in a variety of tasks and producing a composite score to represent overall ability, e.g., Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale.
It is used to predict educational outcomes and other variables of interest.
Others have attempted to measure intelligence indirectly by looking at individuals' or group's educational attainment, although this risks bias from other demographic factors, such as age, income, gender and cultural background, all of which can affect educational attainment.
Dissatisfaction with traditional IQ tests has led to the development of alternative theories.
In 1983, Howard Gardner proposed the theory of multiple intelligences, which broadens the conventional definition of intelligence, to include logical, linguistic, spatial, musical, kinesthetic, naturalist, intrapersonal and interpersonal intelligences.
He chose not to include spiritual intelligence amongst his "intelligences" due to the challenge of codifying quantifiable scientific criteria., but suggested an "existential intelligence" as viable.
The term religiosity refers to degrees of religious behaviour, belief, or spirituality.
The measurement of religiosity is hampered by the difficulties involved in defining what is meant by the term.
Numerous studies have explored the different components of religiosity, with most finding some distinction between religious beliefs/ doctrine, religious practice, and spirituality.
Studies can measure religious practice by counting attendance at religious services, religious beliefs/ doctrine by asking a few doctrinal questions, while spirituality can be measured by asking respondents about their sense of oneness with the divine or through detailed standardized measurements.
When religiosity is measured, it is important to specify which aspects of religiosity are referred to.
In a 2013 meta-analysis, led by Professor Miron Zuckerman, of 63 scientific studies about IQ and religiosity, a negative relation between intelligence and religiosity was found in 53, and a positive relation in the remaining ten.
Controlling for other factors, they can only confidently show strong negative correlation between intelligence and religiosity among American Protestants.
The meta-analysis discussed three possible explanations: Controversial researcher Helmuth Nyborg and Richard Lynn, emeritus professor of psychology at the University of Ulster, compared belief in God and average national IQs in 137 countries.
Using data from a U.S. study of 6,825 adolescents, the authors found that atheists scored 6 IQ points higher than non-atheists.
The authors also investigated the link between belief in a god and intelligence on a country level.
The authors reported a correlation of 0.60 between atheism rates and level of intelligence, which was determined to be "highly statistically significant".
Of the twelve countries with atheism over 40%, all except two are in the average IQ range of 94 to 100, with only one higher than that range (Japan) and one lower (Cuba).
Cuba and Vietnam, (former) communist countries, are anomalies, having a lower average intelligence but a high number of disbelievers, which may be attributed to the communist anti-religious stance.
The United States are also an anomaly, with a higher average intelligence but a low number of atheists.
(For the purposes of this article, it should be noted that 'belief in a god' may not directly correlate with 'religiosity.'
Some nations have high proportions of people who do not believe in a god, but who may nevertheless be highly religious, following non- theistic belief systems such as Buddhism or Taoism.)
The Lynn et al.
study has been criticized by Artificial Intelligence researcher Randy Olson who has noted that the correlation between national religiosity and intelligence is weak.
The correlation between wealth and intelligence is stronger and more suited.
He notes that many of the countries with lower intelligence scores are less developed and that countries with 20% atheists or more flat line rather than increase in intelligence.
When looking at Kanazawa's paper on individual religiosity, or atheism, and intelligence, Olson noted that both the most religious and atheists were all within the bounds of "average intelligence" (90-109) and from a practical point, none are distinguishable from the other.
The Lynn et al.
paper has also been criticized by Professor Gordon Lynch, director of the Centre for Religion and Contemporary Society from London's Birkbeck College, who expressed concern that the study failed to take into account a complex range of social, economic and historical factors, each of which has been shown to interact with religion and IQ in different ways.
Gallup surveys, for example, have found that the world's poorest countries are consistently the most religious, perhaps because religion plays a more functional role (helping people cope) in poorer nations.
Even at the scale of the individual, IQ may not directly cause more disbelief in gods.
Dr David Hardman of London Metropolitan University says: "It is very difficult to conduct true experiments that would explicate a causal relationship between IQ and religious belief."
He adds that other studies do nevertheless correlate IQ with being willing or able to question beliefs.
Researcher Gregory S. Paul's findings suggest that economic development has a closer relationship with religiosity.
He argues that once any "nation's population becomes prosperous and secure, for example through economic security and universal health care, much of the population loses interest in seeking the aid and protection of supernatural entities."
Other studies have shown that increased wealth is correlated with a decline in religious beliefs.
Indeed, the majority of the nations that showed a strong relationship between low religiosity and high IQ in the 2008 study were developed nations.
The idea that analytical thinking makes one less likely to be religious is an idea held by some studies on this issue, including a report from Harvard University.
First of all, the Harvard researchers found evidence suggesting that all religious beliefs become more confident when participants are thinking intuitively (atheist and theists each become more convinced).
Thus reflective thinking generally tends to create more qualified, doubted belief.
Furthermore, the Harvard study found that participants who tended to think more reflectively were less likely to believe in a god.
Reflective thinking was further correlated with greater changes in beliefs since childhood: these changes were towards atheism for the most reflective participants, and towards greater belief in a god for the most intuitive thinkers.
The study controlled for personality differences and cognitive ability, suggesting the differences were due to thinking styles - not simply IQ or raw cognitive ability.
An experiment in the study found that participants moved towards greater belief in a god, after writing essays about how intuition yielded a right answer or reflection yielded a wrong answer (and conversely, towards atheism if primed to think about either a failure of intuition or success of reflection).
The authors say it is all evidence that a relevant factor in religious belief is thinking style.
The authors add that, even if intuitive thinking tends to increase belief in a god, "it does not follow that reliance on intuition is always irrational or unjustified."
A study by Gervais and Norenzayan  reached similar conclusions that intuitive thinking tended to increase belief in intrinsic religiosity, intuitive religious belief and belief in supernatural entities.
They also added a causative element, finding that subtly triggering analytic thinking can increase religious disbelief.
They concluded that "Combined, these studies indicate that analytic processing is one factor (presumably among several) that promotes religious disbelief."
While these studies linked religious disbelief to analytical rather than intuitive thinking, they urged caution in the interpretation of these results, noting that they were not judging the relative merits of analytic and intuitive thinking in promoting optimal decision making, or the merits or validity of religiosity as a whole.
Reviewing psychological studies on atheists, Miguel Farias, noted that studies concluding that analytical thinking leads to lower religious belief "do not imply that that atheists are more conscious or reflective of their own beliefs, or that atheism is the outcome of a conscious refutation of previously held religious beliefs" since they too have variant beliefs such as in conspiracy theories of the naturalistic variety.
He notes that studies on deconversion indicate that a greater proportion of people who leave religion, do so for motivational rather than rational reasons and the majority of deconversions occur in adolescence and young adulthood when one is emotionally volatile.
Furthermore, he notes that atheists are indistinguishable from New Age individuals or Gnostics since there are commonalities such as being individualistic, non-conformist, liberal, and valuing hedonism and sensation.
Concerning the cognitive science studies on atheists, Johnathan Lanman notes that there are implicit and explicit beliefs which vary among individuals.
An individual's atheism and theism may be related to the amount of "credibility enhancing displays" (CRED) one experiences in that those who are exposed more to theistic CRED will likely be theist and those who have less exposure to theistic CRED will likely be atheists.
Neurological research on mechanisms of belief and non-belief, using Christians and atheists as subjects, by Harris et al have shown that the brain processes beliefs and facts the same way no matter what the content is.
In other words, there is no difference, from the view point of the brain, between a theistic belief/unbelief, atheistic belief/unbelief, or any other mundane belief/unbelief even when believers and nonbelievers accepted and rejected diametrically opposite statements.
The same neural networks were active in both Christians and Atheists even when dealing with "blasphemous statements" to each other's worldviews.
Furthermore, it supports the reality that "intuition" and "reason" are not two separate and segregated activities but are intertwined in both theists and atheists when they come to any personal conclusions or convictions.
A small 2004 study by Ellen Paek examined the extent to which religiosity (in which only Christians were surveyed), operationalized as religious orientation and religious behaviour, is related to the controversial idea of emotional intelligence (EI).
The study examined the extent to which religious orientation and behavior were related to self-reported (EI) in 148 church attending adult Christians.
(non-religious individuals were not part of the study).
The study found that the individuals' self-reported religious orientation was positively correlated with their perceiving themselves to have greater EI.
While the number of religious group activities was positively associated with perceived EI, number of years of church attendance was unrelated.
Significant positive correlations were also found between level of religious commitment and perceived EI.
Thus, the Christian volunteers were more likely to consider themselves emotionally intelligent if they spent more time in group activities and had more commitment to their beliefs.
Tischler, Biberman and McKeage warn that there is still ambiguity in the above concepts.
In their 2002 article, entitled "Linking emotional intelligence, spirituality and workplace performance: Definitions, models and ideas for research", they reviewed literature on both EI and various aspect of spirituality.
They found that both EI and spirituality appear to lead to similar attitudes, behaviors and skills, and that there often seems to be confusion, intersection and linking between the two constructs.
The relationship between the level of religiosity and the level of education has been a philosophical, as well as a scientific and political concern since the second half of the 20th century.
The parameters in this field are slightly different compared to those brought forward above: if the "level of religiosity" remains a concept which is difficult to determine scientifically, on the contrary, the "level of education" is, indeed, easy to compile, official data on this topic being publicly accessible to anyone in most countries.
Different studies available show contrasting conclusions.
An analysis of World Values Survey data showed that in most countries, there is no significant relationship between education and religious attendance, with some differences between "western" countries and former socialist countries, which they attribute to historical/ political/ economic factors (not intelligence).
Other studies have noted a positive relationship.
R v Big M Drug Mart Ltd is a landmark decision by Supreme Court of Canada where the Court struck down the Lord's Day Act for violating section 2 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
This case had many firsts in constitutional law including being the first to interpret section 2.
On Sunday, May 30, 1982 the Calgary store Big M Drug Mart was charged with unlawfully carrying on the sale of goods on a Sunday contrary to the Lord's Day Act of 1906.
At trial the store was acquitted and an appeal was dismissed by the Alberta Court of Appeal.
The constitutional question put before the Court was whether the Act infringed the right to freedom of conscience and religion, if so, whether it is justified under section 1 of the Charter, and whether the Act was intra vires (within) Parliament's criminal power under section 91(27) of the Constitution Act, 1867.
The Supreme Court ruled that the statute was an unconstitutional violation of section 2 of The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, deciding that there was no true secular basis for the legislation and its only purpose was, in effect, to establish a state religious-based requirement, and was therefore invalid.
The drug store's victory was made possible by section 52 of the Constitution Act, 1982, which provides that unconstitutional laws can be found invalid, as opposed to section 24 of the Charter, which is for those whose rights are violated.
Inasmuch as a corporation is not a natural person, it cannot have a religion and therefore the corporations religious freedom was not violated.
In that case, Chief Justice Brian Dickson wrote that this freedom at least includes freedom of religious speech, including "the right to entertain such religious beliefs as a person chooses, the right to declare religious beliefs openly and without fear of hindrance or reprisal, and the right to manifest religious belief by worship and practice or by teaching and dissemination."
Freedom of religion would also prohibit imposing religious requirements.
The Lord's Day Act was the first law in Charter jurisprudence to be struck down in its entirety, and some of the section 1 analysis in the decision played a role in developing the Oakes test in the later case R. v. Oakes.
In secular usage, religious education is the teaching of a particular religion (although in England the term religious instruction would refer to the teaching of a particular religion, with religious education referring to teaching about religions in general) and its varied aspects: its beliefs, doctrines, rituals, customs, rites, and personal roles.
In Western and secular culture, religious education implies a type of education which is largely separate from academia, and which (generally) regards religious belief as a fundamental tenet and operating modality, as well as a prerequisite for attendance.
The secular concept is substantially different from societies that adhere to religious law, wherein "religious education" connotes the dominant academic study, and in typically religious terms, teaches doctrines which define social customs as "laws" and the violations thereof as "crimes", or else misdemeanors requiring punitive correction.
People oppose religious education in public schools on various grounds.
One is that it constitutes a state sponsorship or establishment of whatever religious beliefs are taught.
Others argue that if a particular religion is taught in school, children who do not belong to that religion will either feel pressure to conform or be excluded from their peers.
Proponents argue that religious beliefs have historically socialized people's behavior and morality.
They feel that teaching religion in school is important to encourage children to be responsible, spiritually sound adults.
In Christianity, catechesis refers to the religious instruction of Christian children and adult converts.
The Church Educational System of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) provides religious education for the youth and adults in 145 countries.
In traditional Muslim education, children are taught to read and sometimes speak Arabic and memorize the major suras of the Qur'an.
Many countries have state-run schools for this purpose (known as Madrasah Islamiyyah in Arabic; meaning "Islamic school").
Traditionally, a settlement may pay a mullah to teach children.
There is a historic tradition of Sufi mullahs who wander and teach, and an ancient tradition of religious universities.
However, the study of Islam does not suffice.
Students must pass the state mandated curriculum to pass.
Religious scholars often serve as judges, especially for criminal and family law (more rarely for commercial law).
Pertaining to Jewish religious education in a secular society, Michael Rosenak, an Israeli philosopher of Jewish education, asserts that even when non-religious Jewish educators insist that the instruction of Judaism is not only a religious matter, they agree that “the religious factor” was very important to its culture before secularism dawned on society, and that “an understanding of natural history and literature requires a sense of historical Jewish sensibility.
In the People's Republic of China, formal religious education is banned except in licensed schools of theology, which are usually college-level and above.
These colleges are state-supported and usually very small, with limited enrollments and budgets.
Religious education usually occurs in scheduled sessions in private homes.
Religious teachers usually move on a weekly or monthly circuit, staying as guests in private houses in exchange for teaching.
In India, there are a number of private schools run by religious institutions, especially for Hindus, Muslims, Christians, Jains and Buddhists.
During the era of British rule, Christian private schools were quite prominent and widely attended by both UK (British) and Indian students.
Many of the schools established during this era, especially in areas with a heavy Christian population, are still in existence today.
The school teaches academic education according to the standard UK curriculum, alongside devotional subjects of bhajan/kirtan singing and instrumentation and also Gaudiya Vaishnava philosophy.
ISKCON has instituted a number of seminaries and schools of tertiary higher education.
In addition to typical formal education, ISKCON also offers specialized religious/spiritual instructional programs in scriptural texts, standardized by the ISKCON Ministry for Educational Development and the GBC committee on Vaisnava Training & Education, categorized by level and difficulty; in India, they are primarily provided by the Mayapur Institute for Higher Education and Training and the Vrindavan Institute for Higher Education.
ISKCON also offers instruction in archana, or murti worship and devotional ceremony, through the Mayapur Academy.
In addition to regular formal education, a number of religious institutions have instituted regular informal religious/spiritual education programs for children and adults.
ISKCON temples have established a number of such In Japan, there are many Christian schools and universities with mandatory religious education.
Any religious education at private middle and high schools requires the teacher to be accredited by a university teaching the religious education standards.
Private schools with a traditional connection to Buddhist sects generally do not mandate any religious study.
Religious or political education, or clubs that promote a specific religious or political group, are prohibited at public schools.
In Pakistan, Muslim students must take Islamic studies from primary to higher education.
The subject is optional for non-Muslim students, who can choose the subject of ethics instead.
In Thailand, Burma and other majority Buddhist societies, Buddhist teachings and social decorum are sometimes taught in public school.
Young men are expected to live as monks for several months at one time in their lives during which they can receive religious education.
Because of Austria's history as a multinational empire that included the largely Islamic Bosnia, Sunni Islam has been taught side by side with Roman Catholic, Protestant or Orthodox classes since the 19th century.
However, children belonging to minority religions, like Jewish, Buddhist and Latter Day Saints also study religious education in their various denominations.
At many schools, secular classes in Ethics can be attended alternatively.
In Finland religious education is mandatory subject both in comprehensive schools (7–16 years) and in senior/upper secondary schools (16-18/19 years).
Most of Finnish students study Evangelical Lutheran religious education.
A student can receive religious education according to his or her own religion if the denomination is registered in Finland.
Since religious education is a compulsory subject, pupils who do not belong to any religious group are taught Ethics.
Also some non-Lutheran pupils participate in the Evangelical Lutheran religious education.
In France, the state recognizes no religion and does not fund religious education.
However, the state subsidizes private teaching establishments, including religious ones, under strict conditions of not forcing religion courses on students and not discriminating against students according to religion.
An exception is the area of Alsace-Moselle where, for historical reasons (it was ruled by Germany when this system was instituted in the rest of France) under a specific local law, the state supports public education in some religions (Catholic, Protestant, Jewish) mostly in accord with the German model.
Historically, the various confessions in Germany have contributed to primary and secondary education and do so still.
Education in Germany still embodies the legacy of the Prussian education system introduced by Frederick the Great in 1763.
The curricula of the various States of Germany since then have included not only basic technical skills but also music (singing) and religious (Christian) education in close cooperation with the churches.
This has led to the churches being assigned a specific status as legal entity of public law, "Körperschaft des öffentlichen Rechts" in Germany, which is a legacy of a 1919 Weimar compromise still in force today.
Most of the federal states of Germany, which has a long history of almost even division between Roman Catholicism and Protestantism, have an arrangement whereby the religious bodies oversee the training of mainline Protestant, Catholic, and Jewish religious education teachers.
In one of the federal states this includes Orthodox Christian teachers as well.
In Berlin, Bremen (see Bremen clause) and Brandenburg, religious education is not mandatory.
E.g.
in Bremen, state-authorized "Bible studies" were offered which were not supervised by a specific confession.
The training is supposed to be conducted according to modern standards of the humanities, and by teachers trained at mostly state-run colleges and universities.
Those teachers teach religion in public schools, are paid by the state and are bound to the German constitution, as well as answerable to the churches for the content of their teaching.
Children who are part of no mainstream religion (this applies e.g.
to Jehovah's Witnesses and members of the New Apostolic Church) still have to take part in the classes of one of the confessions or, if they want to opt out, attend classes in Ethics or Philosophy instead.
The Humanistischer Verband Deutschlands, an atheist and agnostic association, has adopted to the legal setup of the churches and is now allowed to offer such classes.
From the age of 14, children may decide on their own if they want to attend religion classes and, if they do, which of those they are willing to attend.
For younger children it is the decision of their parents.
The state also subsidizes religious and Waldorf education schools by paying up to 90% of their expenses.
These schools have to follow the same curricula as public schools of their federal state, though.
The introduction of Islamic religious education in Germany has faced various burdens and thresholds, but it is being introduced currently.
While there are around three million Muslims, mostly of Turkish origin, now in the country (see Islam in Germany), not many of them are members of a legal entity with which the states could arrange such matters (unlike the Christian churches' representatives and the humanists).
In 2013, for the first time in German history, the state of Hessen acknowledged a Muslim community, the reform-oriented Ahmadiyya, as Körperschaft des öffentlichen Rechts for all of Germany, which has been deemed a historical milestone.
Ahmadiyya applied for the status just to be able to offer religious education in state schools, but is allowed now to maintain its own cemeteries and have its members' fees collected by the state's church tax system.
In Greece, students at public schools typically learn the basics of the Greek Orthodox faith.
Students can opt out of these classes, if their parents state, in paper, that their children are not of the Greek Orthodox dogma.
In Poland, religious education is optional in state schools.
Parents decide whether children should attend religion classes or ethics classes or none of them.
Since 2007, grades from religion (or ethics) classes are counted towards the grade point average.
Religious education is optional in Romanian state schools.
Parents can freely choose which religion their children will study, but a majority of religious classes focus on the Romanian Orthodox faith, which is the majority religion in the country.
Institutional education in general, and religious education in particular, is centralized in Turkey.
This approach began with the Unity of Education Law, which was first drafted in 1924 and preserved in subsequent legal reforms and constitutional changes.
Due to the secular revolution, previous practices of the Ottoman education system were abandoned.
The newer Unity of Education Law was interpreted as totally excluding religious instruction from public schools.
In 1956, as a result of multiparty democracy, a new government led by the former Democratic Party was established.
This new government introduced a religion course into secondary schools.
After the military coup in 1980, religious education in school was transformed.
The new program of the "Culture of Religion and Knowledge of Ethics" integrated the course with the purposes and principles of general education to educate students to be critical and active participants in the educational process.
The content of religious education is still prepared by the state.
The state ensures that children are first exposed to accepted interpretations of Islam before exposing them to other religious teachings.
In the United Kingdom, Catholic, Church of England (in England) and Jewish schools have long been supported within the state system, with all other schools having a duty to provide compulsory religious education.
Until the introduction of the National Curriculum, religious education was the sole compulsory subject in state schools.
State school religious education is non-proselytising and covers a variety of faiths, although the legislation still requires it to include more Christian content than other faiths.
The Church of Scotland does not have schools, although it does often have a presence in Scottish non-denominational institutions.
There is no National Curriculum for Religious Education in England.
In England and Wales, the content of the syllabus is agreed on by local education authorities (LEAs), with the ratification of a Standing Advisory Council on Religious Education (SACRE) comprising members of different religious groups, teachers and local councillors.
Parents can withdraw their children from all or part of the lessons on religious, sex and relationship education if they want.
In Canada, religious education has a varying status.
On the one hand, publicly funded and organized separate schools for Roman Catholics and Protestants are mandated in some provinces and in some circumstances by various sections of the Constitution Act, 1867.
On the other hand, with a growing level of multiculturalism, particularly in Ontario, debate has emerged as to whether publicly funded religious education for one group is permissible.
For example, Newfoundland withdrew funding for Protestant and Roman Catholic schools in 1995, after a constitutional amendment.
Quebec abolished religious education funded by the state through the Education Act, 1998, which took effect on July 1 of that same year, again after a constitutional amendment.
Quebec re-organized the schools along linguistic rather than religious lines.
In Ontario, however, the move to abolish funding has been strongly resisted.
In the 2007 provincial election, the topic of funding for faith-based schools that were not Catholic became a major topic.
The provincial conservative party was defeated due, in part, to their support of this topic.
In the United States, religious education is often provided through supplementary "Sunday school", "Hebrew school", catechism classes, etc.
taught to children at their family's place of worship, either in conjunction with worship services or some other time during the week, after weekday school classes.
Some families believe supplementary religious education is inadequate, and send their children to private religious schools, called parochial schools when they are affiliated with a specific parish or congregation.
Many faiths also offer private college and graduate-level religious schools, which may be accredited as colleges.
Under U.S. law, religious education is forbidden in public schools, except from a neutral, academic perspective.
For a teacher or school administration to endorse one religion is considered an infringement of the "establishment clause" of the First Amendment.
The boundaries of this rule are frequently tested, with court cases challenging the treatment of traditional religious holidays, displays of religious articles and documents such as the Ten Commandments, the recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance (which since 1954 has described the U.S. as "one nation under God"), and how prayer should be accommodated in the classroom.
The Primordial Tradition is a school of religious philosophy which holds its origins in the philosophia perennis, or perennial philosophy, which is in turn a development of the prisca theologia of the Middle Ages.
The Primordial Tradition seeks to establish a fundamental origin of religious belief in all authentic religious teachings, adhering to the principle that universal truths are a cross cultural phenomenon and transcendent of their respective traditions, mythologies, and religious beliefs.
The idea of the Primordial Tradition was well received by both practitioners and the academic community, and its development was actively endorsed by the International Conference of Religions in Chicago, 1893 The Primordial Tradition does not elevate any tradition or religion above another and instead upholds the truth claims of all authentic religions and spiritual movements.
Adherents of the Primordial Tradition can be found in any religious system such as Hinduism, Buddhism, Paganism, Christianity or Islam.
By examining the foundations of religious thought as philosophical truth values, the Primordial Tradition seeks to produce a level of wisdom or gnosis which is greater than that which would be provided by the study of a single religious system.
The process utilized is similar to the study of the history of religions and comparative mythology as is found in the works of authors such as Mircea Eliade.
It can also be found in the school of archetypal psychology and in the ideas of Carl Jung Key proponents of the Primordial Tradition have included Rene Guenon, Frithjof Schuon, Julius Evola, Ananda Coomaraswamy, Elémire Zolla, Alain Danielou, Jean-Louis Michon, Gottfried Leibniz, Aldous Huxley, and Plato.
The Traditionalist School bases its teachings on religious belief on the concept of a pre-existent primordial tradition found in different religions.
"I Do Believe" is a song recorded by the American country supergroup The Highwaymen for their 1995 album The Road Goes on Forever.
It was written by Waylon Jennings and produced by Don Was, with Jennings providing lead vocals on the track.
The song has highly pandeistic-sounding overtones, as it derides conventional religious belief in Heaven and Hell while affirming a religious belief under which one ought to "live life to the fullest."
In his autobiography, Jennings related of I Do Believe that, "when I finished the song, and before the Highwaymen recorded it, I showed it to Will" -- that being 'bootleg preacher' Will D. Campbell -- who simply responded, 'That'll preach.'"
The song was originally released on The Highwaymen album The Road Goes on Forever (1995), and was later included as the last song on Jennings' Nashville Rebel box set.
It also appeared on the Red Hot and Country video.
It was covered by Bonnie Bramlett on her 2008 album, Beautiful.
The song wasn't a commercial hit, however, it is considered one of Jennings' finest compositions.
Musicologist Colin Larkin, in his Encyclopedia of Popular Music, described the song as "thought-provoking" and wrote with respect to Jennings that the song "showed him at his best, questioning religious beliefs."
William Sweet is a Canadian philosopher, and a past president of the Canadian Philosophical Association.
He is Professor of Philosophy and Director of the Centre for Philosophy, Theology, and Cultural Traditions at St Francis Xavier University.
Sweet is also a member of the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies at the University of Ottawa, and serves as an adjunct professor in the graduate programmes of Saint Paul University and of the Collège dominicain de philosophie et de théologie in Ottawa, Canada.
Sweet was Professor of Philosophy and Professor of Religious Studies at St Thomas University in Fredericton, New Brunswick, where he served as the Vice President (Academic) from 2007 to 2008.
He has also been a Visiting Professor at the John Paul II Catholic University of Lublin, Poland, Soochow University, Taipei, and the Dharmaram Vidya Kshetram and the University of Pune, India.
Sweet studied political science, theology, and philosophy in Canada, France, and Germany.
He completed a DEA in political science at the Sorbonne at the Université de Paris (with Luc Ferry), a PhD in philosophy at the University of Ottawa, and a D.Ph.
He also studied at Carleton University, the University of Manitoba, the Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, and the Centre Sèvres, (Faculté de Théologie de la Compagnie de Jésus, Paris).
Sweet specializes in political philosophy (particularly on issues of human rights); the philosophy of religion (e.g., the influence of science and technology on religion and, broadly, epistemology of religion); the relation of culture and tradition to philosophical thinking (particularly, comparative Asian and Western philosophy); late 19th and early 20th century Anglo-American Philosophy (particularly, the origins of analytic philosophy and British Idealism); ethical theories and applied ethics (especially, cross-cultural ethics); and the philosophy of Jacques Maritain.
Much of Sweet’s work is in the history of modern philosophy, although he uses this as a resource and a vehicle to address contemporary issues in ethical theory and applied ethics, political philosophy, and the philosophy of religion.
His early essays as well as his first book focused on the British idealist philosophers of the late 19th and early 20th century, but he has published a number of papers and translations on the personalist tradition in French philosophy, particularly that of Jacques Maritain.
Recent research focuses on philosophical debates in the 20th century in South Africa and India, and the challenges of the migration of philosophical texts and traditions across cultures.
The focus of several of Sweet’s articles and books in political philosophy is the theme of rights and obligations.
Much of this has been historical – providing substantial and novel reassessments of British idealists such as Bernard Bosanquet but also of Maritain (who, Sweet argues, converge on a number of significant points).
Sweet’s view is that these traditions provide a basis for a liberal, but non-individualistic, political philosophy.
He gives a brief account of a positive theory of idealist ethics in his Introductory essay to his edited volume on The Moral, Social, and Political Philosophy of the British Idealists (2009), and he defends a broadly Maritainian view of dignity and human rights in a number of recent essays.
Sweet’s contributions to the philosophy of religion are developed over two single authored, one co-authored, and several edited books.
Sweet was a student of D.Z.
Phillips, and much of his work has been on the epistemology of religion and the nature of religious belief.
Sweet argues that much of the debate in the Anglo-American traditions concerning the relation of faith and reason is based on assumptions concerning the meaning and truth of religious beliefs – assumptions which he traces to the early 17th century.
Sweet argues that these accounts misrepresent or misunderstand what religious belief is, and that a more accurate account of religious belief (which requires recognizing both the descriptive and expressive character of religious beliefs), and a broadly coherentist theory of truth can be used to address a number of contemporary issues in the philosophy of religion, such as the relation of religion and science.
Sweet travels extensively, and regularly lectures or teaches in East Asia, India, and Western Europe.
He has been a major contributor to the international programmes of the Council for Research in Values and Philosophy and of the World Union of Catholic Philosophical Associations and the Istituto Internazionale Jacques Maritain (of which he is Presidente d'onore).
He is the editor of Philosophy, Culture, and Traditions and an Editor of Collingwood and British Idealism Studies.
He has also been editor of Etudes maritainiennes/Maritain Studies (1994–2006) and Bradley Studies (2005).
His work has been published in Castilian, Chinese, English, French, Gallego, German, Italian, Persian, Polish, and Vietnamese.
, (Washington, DC: CRVP, 2015).
Cultural Clash and Religion, (Washington, DC: CRVP, 2014) Ideas Under Fire, (with Jonathan Lavery and Louis Groarke) (Fairleigh Dickenson University Press, 2013) Philosophy Emerging from Culture, (with Wonbin Park, George F. McLean, and Olivia Blanchette) (CRVP, 2013) Migrating Texts and Traditions, (University of Ottawa Press, 2012).
An Exchange on Foundations, Faith, and Community.
(with Hendrik Hart) (Rodopi, 2012) Intercultural Dialogue and Human Rights, with Luigi Bonanate and Roberto Papini (CRVP Press, 2011).
Biographical Encyclopedia of British Idealism (Continuum 2010) The Moral, Social and Political Philosophy of the British Idealists (Imprint Academic 2009) Rethinking the Role of Philosophy in the Global Age (ed., with Pham Van Duc) (2009) The Dialogue of Cultural Traditions (ed., with Tomonobu Imamichi, G.F. McLean, et alii) (2008) Religion and the Challenges of Science (ed., with Richard Feist) (Ashgate, 2007) Bernard Bosanquet and the Legacy of British Idealism (University of Toronto Press, 2007) Edition of the Works of Arthur Ritchie Lord (with Errol E. Harris), 3 vols.
(with introductions and critical biographies) (2006) 8, Proceedings of the XXI World Congress of Philosophy, 2003] (2006) Approaches to Metaphysics (Kluwer/Springer, 2004) Edition of Early Responses to British Idealism, 3 vols.
with Carol A. Keene and C. Tyler] The Philosophy of History: a re-examination (Ashgate, 2004) "To the Mountain": essays in honour of Professor George F. McLean, [ed.
Husserl and Stein (2003) [ed.
Religion, Science, and Non-Science (2003) Religious Belief: The Contemporary Debate (2003) Philosophical Theory and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (2003) Edition of Bernard Bosanquet: Essays in Philosophy and Social Policy, (1883–1922), 3 vols.
(with introductions and critical bibliographies) (2003) Philosophy, Culture and Pluralism (2002) Idealism, Metaphysics, and Community (2001) British Idealism and Aesthetics (2001) Edition of Bernard Bosanquet's The Philosophical Theory of the State and Related Essays (2001) [ed., with Gerald F. Gaus] Edition of Natural Law: reflections on theory and practice, by Jacques Maritain (2001; corrected edition, 2003) The Bases of Ethics (2000) The Collected Works of Bernard Bosanquet, 20 vols.
(with introductions and critical bibliographies) (1999) Idealism and Rights: The Social Ontology of Human Rights in the Political Thought of Bernard Bosanquet (1997; paperback 2005).
Throughout the 20th century, most Bissau-Guineans practiced some form of Animism.
Recently, many have adopted Islam, which is currently practiced by 50% of the country's population; most of Guinea-Bissau's Muslims have Malikite Sunni denomination, with Shia and Ahmadiyya minorities.
Approximately 10% of the country's population belong to the Christian community, and 40% continue to hold Indigenous beliefs.
These statistics can be misleading, however, as both Islamic and Christian practices may be largely influenced by syncretism with traditional African beliefs.
Islam is practiced most widely by the Fula and Mandinka ethnic groups, and Muslims generally live in the north and northeast.
Practitioners of traditional indigenous religious beliefs generally live in all but the northern parts of the country.
Christians belong to a number of groups, including the Roman Catholic Church (including Portuguese Guinea-Bissauans) and various Protestant denominations.
Christians are concentrated in Bissau and other large towns.
Foreign missionaries operate in the country without restriction.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
In 2007, the US government received no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Christianity is the dominant religion in Lesotho.
The Christian Council of Lesotho, made up of representatives of all major Christian churches in the country, estimates that approximately 90 percent of the population are Christian.
Lesotho Protestants represent 45% of the population (Evangelicals 26%, and Anglican and other Christian groups an additional 19 %.
), , Roman Catholics represent 45 percent of the population, Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists, Baha'i, and members of traditional indigenous religions comprise the remaining 10 percent of the population.
While Christians can be found throughout the country, Muslims live primarily in the northeast.
Most practitioners of Islam (mainly Sunni) are of Asian origin, while the majority of Christians are members of the indigenous Basotho.
Many Christians practice their traditional cultural beliefs and rituals along with Christianity.
The Catholic and Anglican Churches have fused some aspects of local culture into their services; for example, the singing of hymns during services has developed into a traditional call and response in Sesotho—the indigenous language—as well as English.
Indigenous religious beliefs also influence Songoma, a form of traditional medicine.
Missionaries are active in the country.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice.
In 2007, the US received no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Religious epistemology as a broad label covers any approach to epistemological questions from a religious perspective, or attempts to understand the epistemological issues that come from religious belief.
The questions which epistemologists may ask about any particular belief also apply to religious beliefs and propositions: whether they seem rational, justified, warranted, reasonable, based on evidence and so on.
Religious views also influence epistemological theories, such as in the case of Reformed epistemology.
Reformed epistemology has developed in contemporary Christian religious epistemology, as in the work of Alvin Plantinga (born 1932), William P. Alston (1921-2009), Nicholas Wolterstorff (born 1932) and Kelly James Clark, as a critique of and alternative to the idea of "evidentialism" of the sort proposed by W. K. Clifford (1845-1879).
Alvin Plantinga, for instance, is critical of the evidentialist analysis of knowledge provided by Richard Feldman and by Earl Conee.
D. Z. Phillips (1934-2006) takes this further and says that the argument of the reformed epistemologists goes further and challenges a view he dubs "foundationalism":
Freedom of religion in Taiwan is provided for by the Constitution of the Republic of China, which is in force on Taiwan.
The Government on Taiwan general respects freedom of religion in practise, with government policies continuing to contribute to the generally free practise of religion.
Taiwan has an area of and a population of 23 million.
The 2006 Government Information Office Yearbook, the Religious Affairs Section of the Ministry of the Interior (MOI) states that 35 percent of the population consider themselves Buddhist and 33 percent Taoist.
While the overwhelming majority of religious adherents are either Buddhist or Taoist, many people also consider themselves both Buddhist and Taoist .
In addition to practicing organized religion, many persons also followed a collection of beliefs deeply ingrained in Chinese culture that can be termed "traditional Chinese folk religion."
These beliefs may include some aspects of shamanism, ancestor worship, belief in ghosts and other spirits, and animism.
Researchers and academics estimate that as much as 80 percent of the population believes in some form of traditional folk religion.
Such folk religions may overlap with an individual's belief in Buddhism, Taoism, Confucianism, or other traditional Chinese religions.
Traditional Chinese religions with adherents constituting less than 5 percent of the population include: I Kuan Tao, Tien Ti Chiao (Heaven Emperor Religion), Tien Te Chiao (Heaven Virtue Religion), Li-ism, Hsuan Yuan Chiao (Yellow Emperor Religion), Tian Li Chiao (Tenrikyo), Universe Maitreya Emperor Religion, Hai Tze Tao, Confucianism, Zhonghua Sheng Chiao (Chinese Holy Religion), Da Yi Chiao (Great Changes Religion), Pre-cosmic Salvationism, and Huang Chung Chiao (Yellow Middle Religion).
There also may be an overlap between practitioners of Buddhism, Taoism, and other traditional Chinese religions with those of Falun Gong, which is registered as a civic, rather than religious, organization.
In Taiwan, Falun Gong is generally considered a spiritual movement and not a religion.
The leading proponent of Falun Gong in Taiwan reports that membership exceeds 500,000 and continues to grow rapidly.
In addition to traditional Chinese religions, small percentages of the population consider themselves Protestant, Roman Catholic, or Sunni Muslim.
Several foreign missionary religious groups are also present.
The Church of Scientology, the Baha'i, the Jehovah's Witnesses, the Mahikari Religion, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons) and the Unification Church are registered.
Other Christian denominations present include Presbyterians, the True Jesus Church, Baptists, Lutherans, Seventh-day Adventists, and Episcopalians.
Approximately 70 percent of the indigenous population of 475,000 Aborigines is Christian.
There are also a small number of adherents of Judaism in Taiwan, mainly expatriates.
While the Taiwanese authorities do not collect or independently verify statistics on religious affiliation, they maintain registration statistics voluntarily reported by religious organizations.
Officials from the MOI Religious Affairs Section believe these voluntarily reported statistics significantly understate the number of people in Taiwan who adhere to religious beliefs and participate in some form of religious activities.
The MOI Religious Affairs Section estimates that approximately 50 percent of the population regularly participates in some form of organized religious practice, as distinguished from "traditional Chinese folk religions," and an estimated 14 percent of the population is atheist.
Religious beliefs cross political and geographical lines.
Members of the political leadership practice various faiths.
Taiwan's constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the authorities generally respect this right in practice.
Authorities at all levels protect this right in full, and do not tolerate its abuse, either by official or private actors.
There is no state religion.
Although registration is not mandatory, 26 religious organizations have registered with the MOI's Religious Affairs Section.
Religious organizations may register with the central authorities through their island-wide associations under the Temple Management Law, the Civic Organizations Law, or the chapter of the Civil Code that governs foundations and associations.
While individual places of worship may register with local authorities, many choose not to do so and operate as the personal property of their leaders.
Registered religious organizations operate on a tax-free basis and are required to submit annual reports of their financial operations.
The only ramification for nonregistration is the forfeiture of the tax advantages that are available for registered religious organizations.
There were no reports that the authorities have sought to deny registration to new religions.
Religious organizations are permitted to operate schools, but compulsory religious instruction is not permitted in any public or private elementary, middle, or high school accredited by the Ministry of Education (MOE).
High schools accredited by the MOE, while not allowed to require religious instruction, may provide elective courses in religious studies, provided such courses do not promote certain religious beliefs over others.
Universities and research institutions may have religious studies departments.
Before 2004, legislation barred religious schools and theological institutes from applying for MOE accreditation, and the MOE did not recognize university-level degrees granted by these types of schools.
In March 2004, the Legislative Yuan revised the Private Schools Act authorized the MOE to establish an accreditation process for university-level religious education institutions supported by religious organizations or private funds.
In April 2006, the MOE promulgated regulations governing the accreditation process.
In August 2006, the MOE accredited its first seminary, the Dharma Drum Buddhist College.
Taiwan's policies and practices contribute to the generally free practice of religion.
There are no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in Taiwan.
There are no reports of forced religious conversion.
The MOI promotes interfaith understanding among religious groups by sponsoring symposiums or helping to defray the expenses of privately sponsored symposiums on religious issues.
The MOI also publishes and updates an introduction to major religious beliefs and groups based on material provided by the groups.
This introduction is also available on the internet.
In May 2006, the MOI invited some 100 leaders from religious organizations to participate in a two-day tour of outstanding social services organizations operated by religious charities, to foster cooperation among organizations with similar social welfare goals.
The MOI holds an annual ceremony to honor religious groups for their contributions to public service, social welfare, and social harmony.
Some 170 different organizations and individuals are recognized.
On 23 January 2007, President Chen personally congratulated local Muslims who had completed a pilgrimage to Mecca, and praised Taiwan's Muslim Association (Chinese Muslim Association, an organization that is fully independent from the government) for promoting frequent exchanges between Taiwan and the Islamic world.
President Chen also credited practicing Muslims on Taiwan for helping to create a richer, more diverse culture on the island.
There have been no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Prominent societal leaders have taken positive steps to promote religious tolerance.
For instance, the Taiwan Council for Religion and Peace, the China Religious Believers Association, and the Taiwan Religious Association are private organizations that promote greater understanding and tolerance among adherents of different religions.
These associations and various religious groups occasionally sponsor symposiums to promote mutual understanding.
The Taiwan Conference on Religion and Peace sponsors summer seminars every year to help college students understand the practice of major religions in Taiwan.
Religious Education at Brigham Young University (BYU) (formerly called the College of Religious Education) administers programs related to Mormon religious teaching the university.
In the past it has granted various master's degrees and Doctor of Religious Education degrees.
Currently its only degree program are a MA in religious education primarily aimed at full-time Church Educational System employees and an MA program for military chaplains, while most students who take courses with Religious Education are studying other topics.
Undergraduate BYU students have to take the equivalent of one religion course per semester.
Religious Education at BYU consists of two departments, Church History and Doctrine and Ancient Scripture.
Church History and Doctrine focuses on courses related to the Doctrine and Covenants, missionary work, the religious history of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and LDS Temples.
These courses focus primarily on doctrines and theology and are largely devotional in nature.
BYU also offers more historically oriented courses related to LDS Church history through its history department, some of which are taught by faculty members whose main appointment is with the religion department.
The department of Ancient Scripture teaches courses related to the Holy Bible, the Book of Mormon and the Pearl of Great Price.
The work of Religious Education faculty members is often published by its publication arm, the Religious Studies Center, or through BYU's Neal A. Maxwell Institute.
Religious Education is not designated as a college.
It has approximately 70 full-time faculty members.
The current dean is Brent L. Top.
His most recent predecessors were Terry Ball, Andrew Skinner, and Robert L. Millet.
Prior to 1929 religion related instruction at BYU was termed theology.
In that year it was renamed religious education.
George H. Brimhall, who was the president emeritus was the only full-time religion instructor before 1930.
Other classes in religion were taught by faculty from other fields.
Having faculty with their main expertise in other fields teach religion is still done at BYU, but the full-time religion faculty is now much more numerous.
Guy C. Wilson, an alumnus of BYU, the University of Chicago and Columbia University was hired as the director of BYU's religious education program in 1930.
Wilson had also been the first seminary teacher ever.
In the early 1930s Sidney B. Sperry and Russel Swensen, also Universityof Chicago alumni, were added as full-time religion faculty.
In 1932 the department of religious education was made part of the BYU College of Education.
In 1940 the department was split off and made the Division of Religious Instruction, a college-level entity, with J. Wyley Sessions as its first head.
The division was divided into four sections, Bible and Modern Scripture (Sperry as head), Church Organization and Administration (Wesley Lloyd as head), Church History (Swensen as head) and Theology (Sessions as head).
In 1946 the BYU Department of Archeology was organized as part of the Division of Religious Instruction.
In About 1953 that department was moved to the BYU College of Humanities and Social Sciences.
The section or department of theology was renamed in 1952 to the Department of Theology and Religious Philosophy.
Its name was shortened to Department of Theology and Philosophy.
In 1959 the Division of Religious Instruction was renamed to the College of Religious Instruction.
David H. Yarn, an alumnus of BYU and Columbia University was chosen as the first dean.
All the departments were reformatted or renamed at this point.
The Bible and Modern Scripture Department retained its name, but a new Biblical Languages department was formed that absorbed some of that departments old components.
The Theology and Philosophy and the Church History departments were merged into the History and Philosophy of Religions Department.
The Church Organization and Administration Department was renamed the LDS Theology, Church Organizations and Administration Department.
This last was the shortest lived of the changes, it was renamed in 1961 to the Theology and Church Administration Department.
In 1964 the college was reduced to two departments.
Biblical Literature was moved to the BYU College of Humanities.
The remaining departments were re-organized into the Undergraduate Studies in Religious Instruction and the Graduate Studies in Religious Instruction Departments.
This organization persisted until 1973 when the College was again renamed to being the Department of Ancient Scripture and the Department of Church History and Doctrine.
In 1969 BYU created a philosophy department outside of the College of Religious Instruction.
The 1973 organization of the current departments also saw the program designated as Religious Instruction with no other modifiers.
(22 April 1935 – 28 July 2015) was Emeritus Professor of Religious Education at the University of Birmingham.
He was the author of a number of books and many articles in the fields of religious education, practical theology, and disability.
The latter interest arose from his experiences, and personal and theological reflections, on becoming blind in mid-career.
He edited the British Journal of Religious Education for 25 years, and co-founded the International Seminar on Religious Education and Values (ISREV), of which he was General Secretary for 32 years, and President Emeritus at the time of his death.
After retirement he pursued a further interest as Honorary Professor of Practical Theology in The Queen’s Foundation for Ecumenical Theological Education, Birmingham, England.
John Hull was born in Corryong, Victoria, Australia, the son of John Eaglesfield Hull (born in Leicester, England), a Methodist minister, and Madge Enid Hull, a teacher.
He received a General Arts degree from the University of Melbourne and became a school teacher, but after three years teaching at Caulfield Grammar School, Melbourne, whilst also obtaining a post-graduate B.Ed., he moved to England in 1959 to study theology at Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge, followed by Cheshunt College.
He became domiciled in the UK in 1962.
After Cambridge and four years as Head of Religious Education in a London grammar school, Hull moved to Birmingham to train religious education teachers, first at Westhill College, then at the University of Birmingham, which awarded him a Ph.D. in theology in 1969.
From 1971 to 1996 he was Editor of the British Journal of Religious Education, and he remained a member of its UK Editorial Board until 2009.
He served two terms as President of the National Christian Education Council.
In 1978 he was the co-founder with the late Dr John H Peatling (USA) of the International Seminar on Religious Education and Values (ISREV), by its 2012 Session an association of over 240 religious education scholars from 36 countries, which meets in a different country every other year.
He was its General Secretary from 1978 to 2010, when he was appointed President Emeritus.
In 1989 Dr Hull was appointed to a personal chair as Professor of Religious Education in the University of Birmingham, the first such in the United Kingdom.
In 1990 he was also appointed Dean of its Faculty of Education and Continuing Studies.
In his time in Birmingham, he wrote many papers and contributed over 50 chapters to books.
Books on religious education which he wrote or edited include: What Prevents Christian Adults from Learning?
US (1991): Valley Forge, Pa: Trinity Press International.
</ref> "When we find that Christian adults often seem to stop learning and developing in their faith, one must ask why."
God-Talk With Young Children: Notes for Parents & Teachers (Birmingham Papers in Religious Education).
US: Valley Forge, Pa: Trinity Press International; 77pp, foreword by Maria Harris.
</ref> Thirty-three conversations with children, mostly about God; with interpretation and suggestions.
Utopian Whispers: Moral, Religious and Spiritual Values in School.
London: Religious and Moral Education Press; 204pp.
</ref> BJRE editorials, originally written and now selected by John Hull; covering a period of major changes in religious education in Britain.
Professor Hull lectured on religious education or the consideration of disability in many countries; and, for example, in the three years after he became Professor Emeritus at the University of Birmingham in 2002, he spoke at meetings in Canada, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Malta, The Netherlands, Norway, Taiwan, and the US, as well as at many events in England.
In 1992 Professor Hull received the 'William Rainey Harper Award' of the Religious Education Association of the United States and Canada, given for outstanding contributions to the study of religion in society, especially religious education.
A festschrift was commissioned to mark his 70th birthday: Education, Religion, and Society: Essays in Honour of John M. Hull (2005).
Another book has been published as a tribute to "his exceptional academic achievements in the field of religious education": Religious Education as Encounter: A Tribute to John M. Hull (2009).
In 2006 the University of Cambridge awarded Professor Hull the higher doctorate of Litt.D.
in respect of his published works on religious education.
His work has also been recognised internationally by the award of the honorary doctorates of Hon.D.Theol.
John Hull became blind in 1980, and beyond his academic work on religious education was best known as the author of the autobiographical account of blindness, Touching the Rock: An Experience of Blindness (1990).
This was later re-published with additional material as On Sight and Insight: A Journey into the World of Blindness (1997); which tends to emphasise features of the state of blindness, rather than the experience of losing sight.
Of this work, the neurologist and writer on disability Professor Oliver Sacks commented in the New Yorker, "There has never been, to my knowledge, so minute and fascinating (and frightening) an account of how not only the outer eye, but the 'inner eye', gradually vanishes with blindness; of the steady loss of visual memory, visual imagery, visual orientation, visual concepts... of the steady advance or journey... into the state which he calls 'deep blindness'.".
His experiences led John Hull into further consideration of blindness and disability, particularly in a Christian context, on which he wrote a number of challenging articles.
He also wrote another book, In the Beginning there was Darkness: A Blind Person’s Conversations with the Bible (2001) in which he interpreted the Bible as the product of a sighted culture, with a negative attitude towards blindness.
In 1988, Hull initiated Cathedrals through Touch and Hearing, a scheme which has provided 17 English cathedrals with wooden models and elevated ground plans for the benefit of blind visitors.
In 2003 the Vice-President of the Republic of China presented him with a 'Global Love of Life Award', given by the Chou Ta-Kuan Cultural and Education Foundation of Taiwan to honour those who have contributed to the cause of disabled people, or have overcome personal disability.
John Hull read theology at Cambridge University from 1959 to 1962, and received a Ph.D. in theology from the University of Birmingham in 1969, for a study of the background to the miracles of Jesus, in the magical world of the first century.
This was the basis of his book of the same title, Hellenistic Magic and the Synoptic Tradition (1974).
Alongside his work on religious education, he was concerned with the theology of education, the theology of disability, and the theology of Christian mission, including a critique of money.
Some of Hull's writings on the last subject have been edited and translated into German, and published as Gott und Geld  ('God and Money') (2000).
(Book not available in English.)
After becoming Professor Emeritus at the University of Birmingham, his research and teaching interests turned to issues of practical theology.
In 2004 he took up a post at the Queen's Foundation for Ecumenical Theological Education, Birmingham, as Honorary Professor in Practical Theology.
There he was involved with the training of students for the Anglican and Methodist ministries, particularly in the area of prophetic ministry, which concerns leadership on questions of social justice – questioning and criticising society in the name of the God of justice and peace.
His website gives details of a number of public acts of prophetic witness organised by the Queen's Foundation under his leadership.
He was the author of Mission-Shaped Church: A Theological Response (2006), a serious theological evaluation of the framework within which the Anglican policy document 'Mission-Shaped Church' is presented, raising questions about the concepts of Kingdom, Church, Gospel and Mission.
John M. Hull died on Tuesday 28 July 2015 in hospital, after a serious fall in his home in Birmingham the previous Friday.
He had celebrated his 80th birthday with friends and family three months before.
Heralded as a brilliant thinker and a brilliant man, John is mourned by family, friends and acquaintances all over the world.
He lived a fulfilled life, leaving this world as a much loved husband and father of five.
The relationship between the level of religiosity and the level of education has been studied since the second half of the 20th century.
The parameters of the two components diverse: the "level of religiosity" remains a concept which is difficult to differentiate scientifically, while the "level of education" is easier to compile, such as official data on this topic, because data on education is publicly accessible in many countries.
Different studies show contrasted conclusions regarding any link between the two concepts, depending on whether "religiosity" is measured by religious practices (attendance at places of worship, for example) or specific religious beliefs (belief in miracles, for example), with notable differences between nations.
For example, an international study states that in some Western nations the intensity of beliefs decreases with education, but attendance and religious practice increases.
Other studies indicate that the religious have higher education than the non-religious.
Other studies find that the positive correlation with low or non religiosity and education has been reversed in the past few decades.
In terms of university professors, one study concluded that in the US, the majority of professors, even at "elite" universities, were religious.
According to the General Social Survey, which has collected data on Americans since 1972, people who are educated often are more religious by various measures.
For instance, as of 2010 sociologist Philip Schwadel found that with each additional year of education: the likelihood of attending religious services increased 15%, the likelihood of reading the Bible at least occasionally increased by 9%.
The likelihood of switching to a mainline Protestant denomination increased by 13%.
On belief in God or a higher power, Schwadel said, “With more years of education, you aren’t relatively more likely to say, ‘I don’t believe in God...But you are relatively more likely to say, ‘I believe in a higher power.’ According to the Gallup's 2002 Index of Leading Religious Indicators for the US, the relationship between education and religiosity are complex.
For instance, there are slight differences in belief in God and membership in a congregation: 88% of those with postgraduate degrees believe in God or a universal spirit, compared to 97% of those with a high school education or less; 70% of postgraduate degree holders say they are members of a congregation, compared to 64% of those with a high school education or less.
Sociologist Bradley Wright reviewed results from the 2008 Pew US Religious Landscape Survey and noted that religious groups normally have significant levels of education compared to those who are non-religious.
"The irony" he states "is that some of the religiously unaffiliated explain their rejection of religion in terms of superior learning, but several religious groups have much higher levels of education."
He found that Hindus, Jews, Episcopalians, Buddhists, and Orthodox Christians have the highest levels of education, Catholics, Mormons, and Muslims are at about the national average, and Jehovah's Witnesses have by far the lowest education.
Evangelicals are somewhat below the national average.
The religiously unaffiliated are just slightly above average in levels of college education.
Sociological research by Patricia Snell and Christian Smith on many dimensions of general American youth have noted that older research on baby boomers showed correlations where higher education undermined religiosity, however, studies on today's youth have consistently shown that this has disappeared and now students in college are more likely religious than people who do not go to college.
Sociologist W. Bradford Wilcox said that people with less education have decreased in religiosity in America.
Their views on family and work have been associated with this effect.
Research on secularity has noted that, in America, agnostics have significant levels of education, while atheists have relatively low levels of education.
Sociologist Christian Smith has done research on American evangelical and has found that on average, self-identified evangelicals have more years of education than fundamentalists, liberals, Roman Catholics, and the nonreligious, but slightly less than mainline Protestants.
He also found that evangelicals were the least likely to have high school education or less, the nonreligious were the most likely to have high school education or less, and higher proportions of evangelicals had studied at the graduate level than fundamentalists, liberals, and the nonreligious.
Sociologist Philip Schwadel found that higher levels of education are associated with increased religious participation and religious practice in daily life, but also correlate with greater tolerance for atheists' public opposition to religion and greater skepticism of "exclusivist religious viewpoints and biblical literalism".
Cross-national sociological research by Norris and Inglehart notes a positive correlation between religious attendance among the more educated in the United States.
Research in nonreligion in Britain has shown that the positive relationship between education and non-religion has been reversed with generations after 1955, in other words, that the nonreligious populations tend to have less education and that religious populations tend to have higher education, even though religious affiliation has decreased for both.
In one analysis of World Values Survey data by Edward Glaeser and Bruce Sacerdote, noted that in 65 former socialist countries "there is a negative relationship between years of education and belief in God", with similar negative correlations for other religious beliefs while, in contrast, there were strong positive correlations in many developed countries such as England, France and the US.
They concluded that "these cross-country differences in the education-belief relationship can be explained by political factors (such as communism) which lead some countries to use state controlled education to discredit religion".
The study also concludes that, in the United States and other developed nations, "education raises religious attendance at individual level," while "at the same time, there is a strong negative connection between attendance and education across religious groups within the U.S. and elsewhere."
The authors suggest that "this puzzle is explained if education both increases the returns to social connection and reduces the extent of religious belief," causing more educated individuals to sort into less fervent denominations.
In Ireland, the non-religious have a greater level of education than the general population.
</ref> A study noted positive correlations, among nonreligious Americans, between levels of education and not believing in a deity.
An EU survey finds a positive correlation between leaving school early and believing in a God.
Frank Sulloway of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Michael Shermer of California State University conducted a study which found in their polling sample of "credentialed" U.S. adults (12% had Ph.Ds and 62% were college graduates) 64% believed in God, and there was a correlation indicating that religious conviction diminished with education level.
According to a 2015 global survey by Gallup International, the most religious had lower levels of education, however, religious people in general were a majority in all educational levels.
Research done by Barry Kosmin indicates that Americans with post-graduate education have a similar religious distribution to the general population, with a higher "public religiosity" (i.e.
membership in congregations and worship attendance), but slightly less "belief."
Research done by Barry Kosmin and Ariela Keysar on college students looked at 3 worldviews: Religious, Secular, Spiritual and looked students from various levels from Freshmen to Post-graduates from various majors such as STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics), Social and Behavioral Sciences, Arts and Humanities, and Undecided.
The Religious were 31.8% of total sample (40% from STEM, 27% from Social and Behavioral Sciences, 27% from Arts and Humanities, and 5% from Undecided; the Secular were 28.2% of total sample (38% from STEM, 29% from Social and Behavioral Sciences, 30% from Arts and Humanities, and 3% from Undecided; the Spiritual were 32.4% of total sample(29% from STEM, 36% from Social and Behavioral Sciences, 31% from Arts and Humanities, and 4% from Undecided).
Research by Neil Gross and Solon Simmons done on more than 1,400 professors from 20 disciplinary fields and religiosity found that the majority of professors, even at "elite" universities were religious believers.
As a whole, university professors were less religious than the general US population, but it is hardly the case that the professorial landscape is characterized by an absence of religion.
In the study, 9.8% were atheists, 13.1% were agnostic, 19.2% believe in a higher power, 4.3% believe in God some of the time, 16.6% had doubts but believed in God, 34.9% believed in God and had no doubts.
At "elite" doctoral universities 36.5% were either atheists or agnostics and 20.4% believed in God without any doubts, furthermore the authors noted, "...religious skepticism represents a minority position, even among professors teaching at elite research universities."
They also found that professors at elite doctoral universities are much less religious than professors teaching in other kinds of institutions with more atheists and agnostics in numbers, however, both groups were still a minority there also.
A survey conducted by Times Of India revealed that 22% of IIT-Bombay graduates do not believe in the existence of God, while another 30% do not know.
Studies of Mormons in the US show that Mormons with higher education attend church more regularly than less educated Mormons.
Survey research indicated that 41 percent of Mormons with only elementary school education attend church regularly, compared to 76 percent of Mormon college graduates and 78 percent of Mormons who went beyond their college degrees to do graduate study attending church regularly.
Edward Dutton studied findings which indicate that universities which are particularly transitional and prestigious tend to have (in contrast to less transitional universities), tightly differentiated and ‘fundamentalist’ student evangelical groups and higher levels of conversion while at university.
He argued that Oxford University students are likely to be not just more intelligent in IQ terms than comparable students but more creative, more original in their thinking and more able to acquire knowledge- factors Dutton found made religious experience more likely in an individual.
In 1975, Norman Poythress studied a sample of 234 US college undergraduates, grouping them into relatively homogeneous religious types based on the similarity of their religious beliefs, and compared their personality characteristics.
He found that "Literally-oriented religious Believers did not differ significantly from Mythologically-oriented Believers on measures of intelligence, authoritarianism, or racial prejudice.
Religious Believers as a group were found to be significantly less intelligent and more authoritarian than religious Skeptics."
He used SAT as a measure of intelligence for this study.
Contrary to the researchers' expectations, fundamentalist converts were not less educated people.
However, a weak negative correlation between education and Christian fundamentalism was found by Burton et al.
(1989), a study comparing the religious beliefs and educational achievements of white, Protestant residents of Delaware County, Indiana.
Michael R. Saso (born December 7, 1930) is a professor emeritus of the Department of Religion at the University of Hawaiʻi.
He is a scholar of the religious practices of Japan and China, with a particular emphasis on Taoism.
He was born in Portland, Oregon to Andrew Saso and Beatrice Saso, née Huth.
He earned the following degrees: B.A., Literature, St. Clara University, 1952; M.A., Philosophy/Anthropology, Gonzaga University, 1955; M.A., Chinese Studies, Yale University, 1964; Ph.D., Classical Chinese/Anthropology, University of London 1971.
He joined the University of Hawaiʻi as an associate professor in 1974, later becoming a professor of Chinese religion.
Saso has translated Japanese and Chinese religious texts and related works and has written several books on Asian religion.
His knowledge of Taoism and Buddhism comes from within those communities: he is an initiated Taoist priest of the Zhengyi school as well as an ordained Tendai Buddhist priest.
His first ordination, however, was as a Jesuit.
He left the order in the 1960s, and in 1968 married Nariko Akimoto, with whom he had two daughters.
The marriage was later annulled.
Saso requested reinstatement to the Catholic priesthood in 1998 and is now connected with the New Life Center in Carmel, California, as a priest in the Diocese of San Jose.
The Garg Brahmin also known as Guru/Garga/Krishna gaurd Brahmin are one of the Nepalese Brahmin family lineage and Indian Brahmin caste mainly found in the states of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya pradesh and in Maharashtra among Chitpavan Brahmins.
They claim descent from Garga muni (the family priest of lord Shree Krishna family in Dwaper Yuga) and gave Krishna his name.
The community were involved solely in the research and analysis of Vedas and other religious texts, performing Yajnas and other religious practices.
In Nepal they use surnames like Acharya, Lamichhane, Rijal, Bastola, Bhurtel, Bhetwal, Gajurel, Chudal, etc.
In Nepal, Sharma is not a surname but a middle name of all Nepalese Bahun (Brahmin).
Most of the middle names are Kumar (boys), Kumari(girls), Prasad, Raj, etc.
It is believed the orphans, lost ones or who doesn't know any detail of his/her family are given the middle names only to the Bharmins as their surnames.
However, in India, they use surnames like Sharma, Joshi, Garg, Guru, Shukl, Shrimal, Aacharya, Dwivedi, Trivedi etc.
Basil George Mitchell, D.D., FBA (9 April 1917 – 23 June 2011) was a British philosopher and one-time Nolloth Professor of the Philosophy of the Christian Religion at the University of Oxford.
Mitchell argued strongly for the place of religious belief in public debate and was a prominent critic of liberal humanism.
Mitchell was the son of George William Mitchell and Mary Mitchell (née Loxston).
He was educated at King Edward VI School, Southampton and The Queen's College, Oxford.
He served in the Royal Navy in 1940–46, primarily as an instructor in the Mediterranean.
In 1950 he married Margaret Eleanor Collin.
They had one son, three daughters, and seven grandchildren.
Mitchell embarked on an academic career in 1947 as a tutor in philosophy at Keble College, Oxford.
He moved to Oriel College, Oxford in 1968 to take up a university chair.
His inaugural lecture, "Neutrality and Commitment", attracted much favourable comment at the time.
Later, Mitchell was instrumental in creating a new Oxford honours school devoted to philosophy and theology.
Mitchell delivered the 1974–76 Gifford Lectures at the University of Glasgow, entitled Morality, Religious and Secular.
Among his other important publications in the philosophy of law and of religion include the edited anthology Faith and Logic (1957), Law, Morality and Religion in a Secular Society (1966).
which was a contribution to the debate over law and morality between H. L. A. Hart and Patrick Devlin, The Justification of Religious Belief (1981), and his Sarum Lectures, Faith and Criticism (1992).
There is also a collection of essays, How to Play Theological Ping-Pong (1993).
Mitchell edited the widely used "Oxford Reading in Philosophy" anthology, The Philosophy of Religion.
Mitchell wrote a pamphlet entitled Can Social Policy Be Morally Neutral?, , published by The Social Affairs Unit.
Mitchell was a prominent figure in the Church of England and a member of several of its doctrinal commissions on faith and morals.
Two of his noteworthy contributions to the philosophy of religion were his short essay in the "Theology and Falsification" debate between Antony Flew, R. M. Hare and himself, in which he tried to counter Flew's parable of the "invisible gardener" with his own "parable of the partisan" and his development of the "cumulative-case" method of justifying religious belief, notably in his book The Justification of Religious Belief.
Mitchell was one of those who devoted attention to the philosophy of John Henry Newman, notably in casting "doubt upon the credentials of science itself as an avenue to truth."
He added: "The paradigm instance of factual knowledge, by comparison with which the claims of religion were thought to be problematic, can no longer be made to serve this purpose."
He noted an analogy with "the situation in which Newman found himself as he struggled to analyse the nature of reason and its relation to Christian Faith."
Further contributions include an essay on "The Christian Conscience" to the Oxford Illustrated History of Christianity.
In addition, he wrote an autobiographical essay, "War and Friendship", for the Kelly James Clark anthology, Philosophers Who Believe.
An Engagement with Plato's Republic, co-written with his Oxford friend and fellow philosopher J. R. Lucas, appeared in 2003.
Steven Holtzer and William Abraham co-edited a Festschrift for him, The Rationality of Religious Belief, which includes an appreciation of his thought and character by Oliver O'Donovan, and an essay on the Eucharist by Michael Dummett.
He published latterly a memoir, Looking Back: on Faith, Philosophy and Friends in Oxford.
Paul Helm is a British philosopher and theologian.
He is a teaching fellow at Regent College, after having served as the first incumbent of the J.I.
Packer Chair of Theology there from 2001 to 2005.
He also served as Professor of Theology at Highland Theological College, Scotland, from 2007-10.
Helm was educated (BA, MA) at Worcester College, Oxford, and began his teaching career at the University of Liverpool, where he rose from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer to Reader in Philosophy (1964–93).
He was subsequently appointed as Professor of the History and Philosophy of Religion at King's College London (1993-2000).
His voluminous writings range over philosophy of religion, philosophical theology, historical theology and apologetics.
The bulk of his work, however, has been on the doctrine of God (Eternal God, Clarendon, 1988; The Providence of God, IVP, 1993), religious belief (Belief Policies, Cambridge, 1994; Faith and Understanding, Eerdmans, 1997; Faith with Reason, Oxford, 2000), and the thought of John Calvin (Calvin and the Calvinists, Banner of Truth, 1982; John Calvin's Ideas, Oxford, 2004; Calvin: A Guide for the Perplexed, T & T Clark, 2008; Calvin at the Centre, Oxford, 2010).
Helm has debated Christian apologist William Lane Craig on Calvinism and Molinism.
According to a 2009 Pew Research Center report, 93.1% of Turkmenistan's population is Muslim.
Traditionally, the Turkmen of Turkmenistan, like their kin in Uzbekistan and Afghanistan, are Sunni Muslims.
Shia Muslims, the other main branch of Islam, are not numerous in Turkmenistan, and the Shia religious practices of the Azerbaijani and Kurdish minorities are not politicized.
The great majority of Turkmen readily identify themselves as Muslims and acknowledge Islam as an integral part of their cultural heritage, but some support a revival of the religion's status primarily as an element of national revival.
Islam was introduced to Turkmenistan during the period of Islamic conquest by the second and third Rashidun Caliphs, Umar and Uthman.
Integrated within the Turkmen tribal structure is the "holy" tribe called övlat.
Ethnographers consider the övlat, of which six are active, as a revitalized form of the ancestor cult injected with Sufism.
According to their genealogies, each tribe descends from the Prophet Muhammad through one of the Four Caliphs.
Because of their belief in the sacred origin and spiritual powers of the övlat representatives, Turkmen accord these tribes a special, holy status.
In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, the övlat tribes became dispersed in small, compact groups in Turkmenistan.
They attended and conferred blessings on all important communal and life-cycle events, and also acted as mediators between clans and tribes.
The institution of the övlat retains some authority today.
Many of the Turkmen who are revered for their spiritual powers trace their lineage to an övlat, and it is not uncommon, especially in rural areas, for such individuals to be present at life-cycle and other communal celebrations.
In the Soviet era, all religious beliefs were attacked by the communist authorities as superstition and "vestiges of the past."
Most religious schooling and religious observance were banned, and the vast majority of mosques were closed.
An official Muslim Board of Central Asia with headquarters in Tashkent was established during World War II to supervise Islam in Central Asia.
For the most part, the Muslim Board functioned as an instrument of propaganda whose activities did little to enhance the Muslim cause.
Atheist indoctrination stifled religious development and contributed to the isolation of the Turkmen from the international Muslim community.
Some religious customs, such as Muslim burial and male circumcision, continued to be practiced throughout the Soviet period, but most religious belief, knowledge, and customs were preserved only in rural areas in "folk form" as a kind of unofficial Islam not sanctioned by the state-run Spiritual Directorate.
The current government oversees official Islam through a structure inherited from the Soviet period.
Turkmenistan's Muslim Religious Board, together with that of Uzbekistan, constitutes the Muslim Religious Board of Mavarannahr.
The Mavarannahr board is based in Tashkent and exerts considerable influence in appointments of religious leaders in Turkmenistan.
The governing body of Islamic judges (Kaziat) is registered with the Turkmenistan Ministry of Justice, and a council of religious affairs under the Cabinet of Ministers monitors the activities of clergy.
Individuals who wish to become members of the official clergy must attend official religious institutions; a few, however, may prove their qualifications simply by taking an examination.
Some Turkmen do not regularly attend mosque services or demonstrate their adherence publicly, except through participation in officially sanctioned national traditions associated with Islam on a popular level, including life-cycle events such as weddings, burials, and pilgrimages.
However, since 1990, efforts have been made to regain some of the cultural heritage lost under Soviet rule.
President Saparmurat Niyazov has ordered that basic Islamic principles be taught in public schools.
More religious institutions, including religious schools and mosques, have appeared, many with the support of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and Turkey.
Religious classes are held in both schools and mosques, with instruction in Arabic language, the Qur'an and the hadith, and history of Islam.
Turkmenistan's government stresses its secular nature and its support of freedom of religious belief, as embodied in the 1991 Law on Freedom of Conscience and on Religious Organizations in the Turkmen Soviet Socialist Republic and institutionalized in the 1992 constitution.
That document guarantees the separation of church and state; it also removes any legal basis for Islam to play a role in political life by prohibiting proselytizing, the dissemination of "unofficial" religious literature, discrimination based on religion, and the formation of religious political parties.
In addition, the government reserves the right to appoint and dismiss anyone who teaches religious matters or who is a member of the clergy.
Since independence, the Islamic leadership in Turkmenistan has been more assertive, but in large part it still responds to government control.
The official governing body of religious judges gave its official support to President Niyazov in the June 1992 elections.
On the other hand, some Muslim leaders are opposed to the secular concept of government and especially to a government controlled by former communists (see Centers of Political Power, this ch.).
Some official leaders and teachers working outside the official structure have vowed to increase the population's knowledge of Islam, increase Islam's role in society, and broaden adherence to its tenets.
Alarmed that such activism may alienate Orthodox Slavs, the government has drawn up plans to elevate the council of religious affairs to ministry status in an effort to regulate religious activities more tightly.
The Constitution of Cameroon provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
Government policy contributes to the generally free practice of religion.
There were no reports of societal abuses and discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
The country is generally characterized by a high degree of religious tolerance.
Muslim centers and Christian churches of various denominations operate freely throughout the country.
Approximately 40 percent of the population is at least nominally Christian, 20 percent is at least nominally Muslim, and 40 percent practice traditional indigenous religious beliefs.
The Christian population is divided approximately equally between Catholic and Protestant denominations.
Christians are concentrated chiefly in the southern and western provinces and Muslims reside in large numbers in every province.
Traditional indigenous religious beliefs are practiced in rural areas throughout the country but rarely are practiced publicly in cities.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
The Government at all levels sought to protect this right in full and did not tolerate its abuse, either by governmental or private actors.
There is no official state religion.
Christian and Islamic holy days are celebrated as national holidays.
These include the Christian holy days of Good Friday, Ascension Day, Assumption Day, and Christmas Day, and the Islamic holy days of the Feast of the Lamb and Eid al-Fitr, the End of Ramadan.
The Law on Religious Congregations governs relations between the Government and religious groups.
The Ministry of Territorial Administration and Decentralization (MINATD) must approve and register religious groups in order for them to function legally.
There were no reports that the Government refused to register any group; however, the process can take a number of years.
It is illegal for a religious group to operate without official recognition, but the law prescribes no specific penalties.
There was a growth within the major cities of so-called "sects," which their leaders consider to be subgroups of Protestant denominations; few of these are registered, and all of them operate freely.
Although official recognition confers no general tax benefits, it allows religious groups to receive real estate as tax-free gifts and legacies for the conduct of their activities.
To register, a religious denomination must legally qualify as a religious congregation.
The definition includes "any group of natural persons or corporate bodies whose vocation is divine worship" or "any group of persons living in community in accordance with a religious doctrine."
The denomination then submits a file to the MINATD.
The file must include a request for authorization, a copy of the group's charter describing planned activities, and the names and functions of the group's officials.
The Minister reviews the file and sends it to the presidency with a recommendation to approve or deny.
The president generally follows the recommendation of the Minister and grants authorization by a presidential decree.
The approval process may take up to several years.
The only religious groups known to be registered are Christian, Muslim, and Bahai.
According to the latest MINATD statistics (released in 2002), there are 38 officially registered denominations, most of which are Christian.
There also are numerous unregistered small religious groups that operate freely.
The Government does not register traditional indigenous religious groups, stating that the practice of traditional religion is a private concern observed by members of a particular ethnic or kinship group or the residents of a particular locality.
The MINATD, rather than the judiciary, primarily resolves disputes between or within registered religious groups about control of places of worship, schools, other real estate, or financial assets.
Missionary groups are present and operate without impediment.
The licensing requirements for foreign groups are the same as those for domestic religious denominations.
The practice of witchcraft is a criminal offense under the national penal code, punishable by a 2 to 10-year prison term.
Several religious denominations operate primary and secondary schools.
Although post-secondary education continues to be dominated by state institutions, private schools affiliated with religious denominations, including Catholic, Protestant, and Qur'anic schools, have been among the best schools at the primary and secondary levels for many years.
The law charges the Ministry of Basic Education and the Ministry of Secondary Education with ensuring that private schools run by religious groups meet the same standards as state-operated schools in terms of curriculum, infrastructure, and teacher training.
For schools affiliated with religious groups, the Sub-Department of Confessional Education of the Department of Private Education performs this oversight function.
School attendance—at public, private, or parochial schools—is mandatory through junior high school.
The campuses of the Central Africa Catholic University and the International Adventist University are located in the country.
The Catholic Church operates two of the country's few modern private printing presses and publishes a weekly newspaper, L'Effort Camerounais.
A 2000 government decree requires potential commercial radio broadcasters to submit a licensing application, pay a fee when the application is approved, and pay an annual licensing fee.
The Government has been slow in granting authorization; consequently, there are many unauthorized radio stations operating.
Two private religious radio stations, the Pentecostal Radio Bonne Nouvelle and Radio Reine (managed by a Catholic priest although not officially sponsored by the Catholic Church), that had been broadcasting without licenses continued to broadcast while awaiting official authorization, as do many other radio stations awaiting their licenses.
The Catholic station Radio Veritas has temporary authorization to broadcast and has been broadcasting without incident.
The state-sponsored television station, CRTV, carries two hours of Christian programming on Sunday mornings, normally an hour of Catholic Mass and an hour of a Protestant service.
There is also one broadcast hour dedicated to Islam on Friday evenings.
State-sponsored radio broadcasts Christian and Islamic religious services on a regular basis, and both the radio and television stations periodically broadcast religious ceremonies on national holidays or during national events.
State television occasionally broadcasts ecumenical ceremonies on major occasions such as the commemoration of a national event.
Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
The practice of witchcraft is a criminal offense under the national penal code.
People generally are prosecuted for this offense only in conjunction with some other offense such as murder; however, there were no reports of convictions of witchcraft under this law.
The Government distinguishes between witchcraft and traditional indigenous religious practices; witchcraft is defined by the law as attempts to do harm by spiritual means and is a common explanation for diseases.
There were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country.
There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.
In 2004 the Government responded promptly to assist the U.S. Embassy in the case of the forced conversion of American citizens by a private actor.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice; however, some religious groups reported societal hostility within their regions.
Established churches denounced new unaffiliated religious groups, most of which are Protestant, as "sects" or "cults," claiming that they were detrimental to societal peace and harmony.
In practice, such denunciation did not inhibit the practice of the unaffiliated religious groups.
In the northern provinces, especially in rural areas, societal hostility by Muslims against Christians and persons who practice traditional indigenous religious beliefs continued.
When there have been natural disasters, or to commemorate national events, Christians and Muslims organized ecumenical ceremonies to pray and promote a spirit of tolerance and peace.
Arkansas HB 1228, also known as the Conscience Protection Act, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, is a law in the state of Arkansas that aims to increase "judicial scrutiny" in cases involving religious beliefs.
Opponents of the law say that it will allow for lawful discrimination of LGBT people.
On March 31, 2015, the law was passed by the Arkansas Senate.
The next day, Governor Asa Hutchinson announced that he would not sign the bill as written, instructing the legislature to make changes the bill's language.
Politifact reports that "Conservatives in Indiana and elsewhere see the Religious Freedom Restoration Act as a vehicle for fighting back against the legalization of same-sex marriage."
In 2015, the Alabama Supreme Court ordered a halt to the issuing of same-sex marriage licenses, Kansas rescinded an LGBT anti-discrimination order, and Arkansas prohibited anti-discrimination codes being enacted by cities and local governments.
The bill was sponsored by Republican state representative Bob Ballinger and Republican state Senator Bart Hester.
Walmart, Apple, and Acxiom have publicly criticized the law, which is similar to Indiana SB 101, a law passed in Indiana a few days earlier.
</ref> Walmart CEO Doug McMillon called on Governor Hutchinson to veto the legislation.
Hundreds of protesters rallied at Arkansas' Capitol to oppose the bill.
A similar bill in Georgia has stalled, with constituents expressing concern to Georgia lawmakers about the financial impacts of such a bill.
A meeting on the bill was cancelled.
Supporters of the bill have stated that the bill would be "gutted" by the inclusion of anti-discrimination clause.
The convention industry in Georgia has stated that a $15 million business could be at risk of boycotts.
After the Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc. decision, the definition of religious beliefs has expanded from the beliefs of individual employees to the practices of closely held for-profit corporations.
Georgia State Rep. Stacey Evans, R-Smryna, proposed an amendment to change references of "persons" to "individuals," which would have eliminated corporations from the protection of the bill.
State Rep. Barry Fleming, R-Harlem, noted that such a move would negate the "closely held corporation" protection granted last year by the U.S. Supreme Court in the Hobby Lobby case.
Texas SJR 10 and HJR 55 plan to introduce a similar bill that changes the language from "substantially burden" to "burden".
The Texas Business Association voted to oppose the bills.
Molly White introduced a bill that would expressly grant private businesses the right to “refuse to provide goods or services to any person based on a sincerely held religious belief or on conscientious grounds.” A similar bill in North Carolina has stalled, with commentators predicting a backlash similar to Indiana's.
The Varieties of Religious Experience: A Study in Human Nature is a book by Harvard University psychologist and philosopher William James.
It comprises his edited Gifford Lectures on natural theology, which were delivered at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland in 1901 and 1902.
The lectures concerned the nature of religion and the neglect of science in the academic study of religion.
Soon after its publication, Varieties entered the Western canon of psychology and philosophy and has remained in print for over a century.
James later developed his philosophy of pragmatism.
There are many overlapping ideas in Varieties and his 1907 book, Pragmatism.
The August 1902 New York Times review of the first edition ends with the following: A July 1963 Time magazine review of an expanded edition published that year ends with quotes about the book from Peirce and Santayana: James was most interested in direct religious experiences.
Theology and the organizational aspects of religion were of secondary interest.
He believed that religious experiences were simply human experiences (“Religious happiness is happiness.
He believed that religious experiences can have “morbid origins”  in brain pathology and can be irrational but nevertheless are largely positive.
Unlike the bad ideas that people have under the influence of a high fever, after a religious experience the ideas and insights usually remain and are often valued for the rest of the person's life.
Under James’ pragmatism, the effectiveness of religious experiences proves their truth, whether they stem from religious practices or from drugs (Nitrous oxide ... stimulate[s] the mystical consciousness in an extraordinary degree.).
James had relatively little interest in the legitimacy or illegitimacy of religious experiences.
Further, despite James' examples being almost exclusively drawn from Christianity, he did not mean to limit his ideas to any single religion.
Religious experiences are something that people sometimes have under certain conditions.
In James' description, these conditions are likely to be psychological or pharmaceutical rather than cultural.
James believed that the origins of a religion shed little light upon its value.
There is a distinction between an existential judgment (a judgment on “constitution, origin, and history”) and a proposition of value (a judgment on “importance, meaning, or significance”).
For example, if the founder of the Quaker religion, George Fox, had been a hereditary degenerate, the Quaker religion could yet be “a religion of veracity rooted in spiritual inwardness, and a return to something more like the original gospel truth than men had ever known in England.” Furthermore, the potentially dubious psychological origins of religious beliefs apply just as well to non-religious beliefs: James criticized scientists for ignoring unseen aspects of the universe.
Science studies some of reality, but not all of it: James saw “healthy mindedness” as America’s main contribution to religion.
This is the religious experience of optimism and positive thinking which James sees running from the transcendentalists Emerson and Whitman to Mary Baker Eddy’s Christian Science.
At the extreme, the “healthy minded” see sickness and evil as an illusion.
James considered belief in the "mind cure" to be reasonable when compared to medicine as practiced at the beginning of the twentieth century.
The “sick souls” ("morbid-mindedness"/ the "twice born") are merely those who hit bottom before their religious experience.
Those whose redemption gives relief from the pains they suffered beforehand.
By contrast, the “healthy minded” deny the need for such preparatory pain or suffering.
James believes that “morbid-mindedness ranges over the wider scale of experience” and that (while healthy-mindedness is a surprisingly effective "religious solution"): James sees the two types as being a mere matter of temperament.
The healthy minded having a "constitutional incapacity for prolonged suffering"; the morbid minded being those prone to "religious melancholia".
For James, a saintly character is one where “spiritual emotions are the habitual centre of the personal energy”.
<br> James states that saintliness includes: For James the practical consequences of saintliness are Asceticism (pleasure in sacrifice), Strength of Soul (a "blissful equanimity" free from anxieties), Purity (a withdrawal from the material world) and Charity (tenderness to those most would naturally disdain).
James identified two main features to a mystical experience: He also identified two subsidiary features that are often, but not always, found with mystical experiences:
Cleveland v. United States, 329 U.S. 14 (1946), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that notwithstanding the fact that polygamy is a person's religious belief, the Mann Act prohibits the transportation of women across state lines to participate in polygamy.
Individuals were members of a fundamentalist Mormon sect that practiced polygamy.
The individuals were indicted for transporting women across state lines to enter into plural marriages.
Following a bench trial, all of the individuals were convicted for violations of the Mann Act.
They then appealed their convictions to the U.S. Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed the convictions.
The U.S. Supreme Court then granted certiorari to hear the case.
Justice William O. Douglas delivered the opinion of the court.
The Court held that transporting a woman or girl across state lines for the purpose of making her a plural wife in a polygamous marriage is a violation of the Mann Act because it is for "an immoral purpose."
In explaining its reasoning, the court opined that although the Mann Act was primarily intended to target commercialized white sex slave trade, the phrase "for any other immoral purpose" makes plain that the Act is not so narrowly limited.
In noting the historical unlawfulness of polygamy in the United States, the Court found polygamy to be an immoral act of the type contemplated by the Mann Act's prohibitions.
Finally, the Court found that there is no viable defense to the Mann Act by virtue of the religious beliefs that motivate the practice of polygamy.
Justice Wiley Blount Rutledge delivered a concurring opinion.
Justice Rutledge agreed with the majority's decision insofar as the majority opinion followed the precedent set in Caminetti v. United States, 242 U.S. 470 (1917), However, Rutledge diverged from the majority view in expressing his opinion that the Caminetti case was wrongly decided, as it improperly expanded the application of the Mann Act beyond the legislators' intent.
Justice Frank Murphy delivered a dissenting opinion, stating that polygamy is not of the same genus as "prostitution and debauchery" as contemplated by the Mann Act.
Morris Joseph (born London, England, 28 May 1848) studied at Jews' College, London, and in 1868 was appointed rabbi of the North London Synagogue; in 1874 he went to the Old Hebrew Congregation of Liverpool, where he officiated as preacher until 1882.
He became delegate senior minister of the West London Synagogue in 1893, when David Woolf Marks retired from active service.
Joseph published a collection of sermons, The Ideal in Judaism, London, 1893, and a valuable popular work on Jewish theology, Judaism as Creed and Life, in 1903.
His position on Jewish religious belief and practice was conservative, midway between Reform and strict Orthodox.
Lived religion is the ethnographic and holistic framework for understanding the beliefs, practices, and everyday experiences of religious and spiritual persons in religious studies.
The name lived religion comes from the French tradition of sociology of religion "la religion veçue".
The concept of lived religion was popularized in the late 20th century by religious study scholars like Robert A. Orsi and David Hall.
The study of lived religion has come to include a wide range of subject areas as a means of exploring and emphasizing what a religious person does and what they believe.
Today, the field of lived religion is expanding to include many topics and scholars.
Robert A. Orsi is Professor of Religious Studies and History and Grace Craddock Nagle Chair in Catholic Studies at Northwestern University.
He researches, writes, and teaches about religion in the United States, in the past and in contemporary contexts, with a particular focus on American Catholicism.
Orsi’s book The Madonna of 115th Street: Faith And Community In Italian Harlem, 1880-1950, won several prizes including the Jesuit National Book Award and is an example study of lived religion.
Orsi defines lived religion as including “the work of social agents/actors themselves as narrators and interpreters (and reinterpreters) of their own experiences and histories, recognizing that the stories we tell about others exist alongside the many and varied story they tell of them selves”.
Orsi understands lived religion to be centered on the actions and interpretations of religious person.
In order to study and write about lived religion Orsi suggests a broad field of study in terms of topic matter and methodology.
Orsi describes his own process of studying lived religion for Madonna On 115th Street as wide in scope: “I came to realize that I was learning as much from how people were to me as from what they were telling me, as much as what was going on around the stories as from the stories themselves.” Rather than a narrow archival study, Orsi’s focus on non-traditional forms of research demands that scholars give attention to institutions and persons, texts and rituals, practices and theology, things and ideas.
In order to study lived religion, Orsi advocates for a complex academic lens where almost anything can hold meaning and serve as a source or text for study.
In The Madonna Of 115th Street, Orsi studies the lived religion of Catholic Italian immigrants in Harlem New York.
Orsi focuses on a particular religious celebration known as the festa for The Madonna and the social structures that create and layer the event.
Through observations, story telling, conversations and research Orsi weaves a picture of life for this immigrant community.
In his book, Orsi explores and explains various internal traditions, cultures, and power and social dynamicss in order to illustrate the various religious meanings and significance for community in Italian Harlem.
Orsi talks about the importance of dynamic subject matter covered by the study of lived religion: “the study of lived religion is shaped by and shapes the way family life is organized, for instance; how the dead are buried, children disciplined, the past and present imagined, moral boundaries established and challenged, home constructed, maintained and destroyed, the gods and spirits worshiped and importuned and so on”.
Orsi critiques popular religion as being a limited framework and method for studying religion.
Orsi claims that popular religion is “unclear, misleading, and tendentious”.
Orsi notes that popular religion is concerned only with the practices of “common folk” and distinguishing popular religion practices as separate from “official religion”.
In his introduction to The Madonna on 115th Street, he writes, “popular religion served to seal off certain expressions of religious life from unspecified but obviously normative religion”.
Orsi is concerned with the limitations of popular religions because he sees it as potentially authorizing legitimacy and boundaries in religious practices and beliefs.
For Orsi, the implied intent in popular religion is to highlight the primitive, ignorant, and often marginalized practitioners of popular religion as a means of “policing religion”.
Orsi’s scholarly move to lived religion as a theoretical framework was an attempt to provide a more holistic approach to religious studies and also highlights the perspective that “religious practices and understandings only have meaning in relations to other cultural forms and in relations to the life experiences and actual circumstance of the people using them”.
David D. Hall has been a faculty member at Harvard Divinity School since 1989.
Hall was Bartlett Professor of New England Church History until 2008, when he became Bartlett Research Professor.
Hall writes extensively on religion and society in seventeenth-century New England and England.
Hall edited a series of essays titled Lived Religion In America: Toward a History Of Practice, which is a foundational compilation in the study of lived religion.
Hall’s book covers topics including gift exchange, cremation, hymn singing and many other essays on lived and practiced religious belief.
Many of Hall's students have gone on to become notable scholars in the field of lived religion.
Hall defines lived religion as “rooted less in sociology than cultural and ethnographical approaches to the study of religion and American religious history.” He instead sees lived religion as the study of the context and content about the practices of religious laity and their “everyday thinking.” Hall believes that using lived religion as an approach to the study of religion allows for a wider interpretation of meaning and also provides an opportunity for historians to examine the past and present from many angles.
For Hall, lived religion “does not depend on any single method or discipline.” Hall also acknowledges the limitations of lived religion.
Hall suggests that as a field, lived religion is “fluid, mobile, and incompletely structured.” Hall calls lived religion an “imperfect tool” noting that even with a dynamic study of laity it is impossible to fully understand any one person’s religious practices, especially when summarizing from a single location be it time or place.
Hall distinguishes the study of lived religion from popular religion by saying that popular religion is concerned with hierarchy and opposition in religious beliefs and practices.
Hall writes, “popular religion has therefore come to signify the space that emerged between official or learned Christianity and the profane (or ‘pagan’) culture.” Hall critiques popular religion as imposing normative perspectives on practices.
The Stripping of the Altars: Traditional Religion in England, 1400–1580 is a work of history written by Eamon Duffy and published in 1992 by Yale University Press.
While its title suggests a focus on iconoclasm, with an allusion to the ceremony of stripping the Altar of its ornaments in preparation for Good Friday, its concerns are broader, dealing with the shift in religious sensibilities in English society between 1400 and 1580.
In particular, the book is concerned with establishing, in intricate detail, the religious beliefs and practices of English society in the century or so preceding the reign of Henry VIII.
The main thesis of Duffy's book is that the Roman Catholic faith was in rude and lively health prior to the English Reformation.
Duffy's argument was written as a counterpoint to the prevailing historical belief that the Roman Catholic faith in England was a decaying force, theologically spent and unable to provide sufficient spiritual sustenance for the population at large.
Taking a broad range of evidence (accounts, wills, primers, memoirs, rood screens, stained glass, joke-books, graffiti, etc.
), Duffy argues that every aspect of religious life prior to the Reformation was undertaken with well-meaning piety.
Feast days were celebrated, fasts solemnly observed, churches decorated, images venerated, candles lit and prayers for the dead recited with regularity.
Pre-Reformation Catholicism was, he argues, a deeply popular religion, practised by all sections of society, whether noble or peasant.
Earlier historians’ claims that English religious practice was becoming more individualised (with different strata of society having radically different religious lives) is contested by Duffy insisting on the continuing ‘corporate’ nature of the late medieval Catholic Church, i.e.
where all members were consciously and willingly part of a single institution.
Much previous historical work on the Reformation, says Duffy, assumed it was a straightforward progression from the decaying Catholicism to the more morally pure but also more functional Protestantism.
Duffy acknowledges that his thesis demands explanation of how, given the popularity of Catholicism, Protestantism was able to wipe away centuries of accumulated tradition, and do so in an incredibly short period of time.
Duffy does this by proposing what he feels are a number of salient explanations – the political power of the militant Protestant clergy undertaking visitations to England's parishes and that continued loyalty to the monarch allowed the word of the King to play a significant role in influencing public behaviour.
Duffy also articulates the fact that while Catholics had the capability of rebelling against laws and edicts it was difficult for such rebellion to be sustained; there were simply no concepts of revolution or working-class solidarity by which Catholics could provide continued resistance to unpopular events.
The second part of Duffy's book concentrates on the accelerated implementation of Protestantism in the mid sixteenth century.
It charts how society reacted to Henrician, Edwardian and Elizabethan reform and the changes in religious practice this entailed.
Duffy uncovers a succession of records, notes and images that individually reveal an assortment of changes to liturgy and custom but taken together build up to demonstrate a colossal change in English religious practice.
So we see how candlesticks and church plate had to be melted down and sold off, altar tables removed, rood screens defaced or torn down and chasubles unstitched.
How walls were whitewashed, relics discarded and paintings of saints hidden in parishioners’ houses.
And we also read how the other aspects of the Catholic community, such as the guild groups or particular local feast days, quickly collapsed without the economic or religious practices on which they depended.
It was a painful process for Catholics, and Duffy vividly illustrates the confusion and disappointment of Catholics stripped of their familiar spiritual nourishment.
(One of Duffy's later studies, The Voices of Morebath: Reformation and Rebellion in an English Village, focuses on how one particular Devon village reacted to these changes.)
Duffy also uses to the second section to highlight the brief flame of optimism felt by Catholics ignited by the reign of the Catholic Mary from 1553 to 1558, a flame quickly extinguished by Mary's death.
But ultimately, the Marian reign is a secondary issue.
Duffy's narrative demonstrates how centuries of religious practice evaporated in the face of fierce centralist control.
Upon its publication, the book was hailed an original and persuasive account of English Catholicism in the Late Middle Ages.
Writing in the New York Review of Books, British historian Maurice Keen stated, <blockquote>Perhaps it takes an Irishman to offer Englishmen (and others) a convincing picture of the religion of the ordinary lay people of England in the age before the Reformation.
...The evocation of [medieval Roman Catholicism,] that older, pre-Reformation tradition and of what its observances meant to the laity of its time is the theme of the first part of Dr. Duffy's deeply imaginative, movingly written, and splendidly illustrated study.< Writing in the London Review of Books in 2002, Patrick Collinson said that The Stripping of the Altars "opened our eyes to the vitality of late medieval English Catholicism".
In a review of a new edition published in 2005, The Atlantic called it <blockquote> [A] vigorous and eloquent book, a work of daring revision and a masterpiece of the historical imagination.... At once meticulous and lush, The Stripping of the Altars patiently and systematically recovers the lost world of medieval English Catholicism.
...[W]hile the first two-thirds of this book is a deeply textured work of historical anthropology, the last third is a gripping narrative history, as Duffy traces the way the English Reformation (a process supported by a tiny minority, and deeply if ineffectively opposed by a population cowed by the new and crushing force of the monarchy) eradicated a thousand years of tradition and ritual.
... Duffy's most significant contribution by far is to elucidate the fragility of even deeply rooted ways of life: he convincingly demonstrates that for better or worse, the Reformation was "a great cultural hiatus, which had dug a ditch, deep and dividing, between the English people and their past"—a past that over merely three generations became a distant world, impossible for them to look back on as their own.< In his 2001 biography of Bible translator William Tyndale, David Daniell, emeritus professor of English at University College London, criticises Duffy's belief that an English bible would have come about sooner or later, within the framework of pre-Reformation Catholicism, and that Nicholas Love's translation of the The Mirror of the Blessed Life of Jesus Christ largely satisfied lay needs for the New Testament.
Daniell claims that Love's book actually contained little of Christ's teaching and a large amount of invented material not in the Gospels.
<blockquote>Catholic revisionist historians miss the point...The Church would never permit a complete printed New Testament in English from the Greek, because in that New Testament can be found neither the Seven Sacraments nor the doctrine of purgatory, two chief sources of the Church's power...An elementary working knowledge of the Bible, the ultimate root of the Christian faith, could only have been developed within Protestantism...[Catholic] piety and practice, in many ways admirable, we must reply, was imprisoned in a little world of recent Church tradition, while the vast continents of historic Bible revelation, towered over by the mountain range of Paul's theology, were forbidden territory...during the English Reformation, lay men and women were so hungry for the Bible in English that they were often prepared to die for it.
Nobody was burned alive for The Little Hours of the Virgin.
There were nine printed editions of Love up to 1530, and none after, as Tyndale's New Testaments arrived.< When evaluating these claims and counterclaims one should keep in mind the extent to which parts of the Bible had been translated into English well before the 16th century, as well as the Biblical instruction conveyed through the religious theatre  that developed throughout the Middle Ages.
Further, the popularity of the various forms of the Devotio Moderna, which included the reading of Scripture, praying the Psalms, and such works as The Imitation of Christ in the years preceding the Reformation, as well as the many sermons and homilies explicating sacred Scripture, delivered to the people through the Middle Ages (many of which are preserved to this day and so can make manifest the depth of Biblical teaching contained therein) indicate the extent to which the Bible's teaching reached the common person.
The Master of Religious Education is a terminal academic degree in preparation for professional teaching ministry, usually offered by Christian institutions.
The curriculum includes two years of theological study and sometimes a thesis.
Although related to many Master of Arts in Religious Education or Master of Theology degrees, the primary focus of the M.R.E.
is to prepare individuals for teaching, as such often requiring previous experience or training in education in order to enroll.
Often, the difference in title is based on the history, philosophy or policies of the institution offering the degree.
In North America, institutions that offer accredited M.R.E.
programs are usually approved by the Association of Theological Schools.
This is a partial list of institutions of note who award a Master of Religious Education (M.R.E.)
degree.
The malunga is a single-stringed musical bow played by the Siddi of India, who are the descendants of East African immigrants.
It produces two tones, an octave apart, and the knuckle of the hand supporting the instrument may also presses against the string to vary the pitch.
It is struck with a stick and, as with the berimbau of Brazil, the hand holding the stick also holds a rattle (in the case of the malunga the rattle, called mai misra).
The malunga has a gourd resonator which amplifies the instrument's sound.
The placement of this rattle along the string also varies the pitch produced by the Malunga.
The bow is of solid-core bamboo cane and the string is made of three twisted strands of gut.
The gourd resonator is made from a coconut shell and is a mobile part of the instrument.
The malunga is one of the instruments that is used in the religious practices of the Siddi, an extremely discriminated against people in India.
This instrument is one of the few that are still in existence that can be played, though its scarcity is growing.
The religious practices of the Siddi are a vital part of their cultural identity and music plays a large role in these practices.
Recently, a documentary was made about the Malunga and its importance to the Siddi.
The message from this documentary was the rate at which these religious instruments are dying out; many of those able to play are elderly and disabled.
The film crew sought to keep the cultural practice alive and implemented a camp for the new generation to learn to play the Malunga.
The camp consisted of making the actual instrument, learning to play it, and learning to play it in the context of religious practice.
The film can be viewed here: *Malunga Documentary
William James "Bill" Ray is the current and tenth Anglican Bishop of North Queensland in Australia.
He was consecrated a bishop in March 2007 and installed as the 10th Bishop of North Queensland on 24 March 2007.
Born in country Victoria on 19 October 1950, Ray went to teachers college and began life as a primary school teacher, soon becoming head teacher of a rural school.
In his young adult years he led a scout troop, contributed to diocesan committees such as the Camp and Conference committee, lead several camps, represented the Diocese of Gippsland on the General Board of Religious Education (GBRE) and studied theology by distance education.
During this time he held a lay reader’s license, often taking services of Morning and Evening Prayer in the Parish of Yarram.
From 1978 to 1981, Ray worked full-time with the young people of the Diocese of Brisbane, offering Bible studies, camps for various ages and assistance with youth groups, as well as providing training for Sunday school and religious education teachers and youth leaders.
He also continued his involvement with GBRE.
His ministry as youth and children’s worker in the parish of St Luke’s Toowoomba from late 1981 to 1986, was punctuated by two years at Duke University in North Carolina where he studied for his Masters in Religious Education.
He moved back to Victoria at the beginning of 1987 to be the education officer for the Diocese of Gippsland and the regional officer for the Council for Christian Education in Schools.
Ray was ordained a deacon in Rockhampton in 1992 during the first few weeks of his five-year ministry as diocesan ministry training officer.
He was ordained a priest later that year.
He served as a parish priest in the parishes of Wandal (Rockhampton), East Ivanhoe and Croydon (Melbourne) and as Archdeacon of Maroondah (outer eastern suburbs of Melbourne).
Over the life of his full-time ministry, Ray has had an active role in the Education for Ministry (EFM) programs at various levels from national trainer, to regional co-ordinator as well as a group mentor.
He is also a proponent of the catechumenate program and has led this at both the parish and diocesan levels.
He became the Director of GBRE in 2000, being equipped for this position over the years through his membership of the board, the executive and positions on various editorial committees.
He has written a number of religious education programs and in recent years authored three Lenten study booklets.
Ray holds a Diploma of Teaching from Frankston Teachers’ College; a Bachelor of Education from the Western Australian College of Education; a Licentiate of Theology from the Australian College of Theology and a Masters of Religious Education from Duke University in the United States.
Ray is married to Robin and they have two children and three grandchildren.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
An estimated 70 percent of the country's citizens identify themselves as Christians.
According to the 2001 census, the country's Muslim community, primarily of South Asian origin, numbers slightly more than 5,000.
The 2001 census also lists approximately 3,000 Hindus and 700 Baha'is.
Members of each community estimate that these figures significantly understated their respective numbers.
Approximately 20 percent of citizens espouse no religion.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
The Government at all levels sought to protect this right in full and did not tolerate its abuse, either by governmental or private actors.
There is no state religion.
Although it is common for government meetings to begin with a Christian prayer, members of other religious groups are not excluded from leading non-Christian prayers at such occasions.
The Constitution also provides for the protection of the rights and freedoms of other persons, including the right to observe and practice any religion without the unsolicited intervention of members of any other religion.
All organizations, including religious groups, must register with the Government.
To register, a group submits its constitution to the Registrar of Societies section of the Ministry of Labor and Home Affairs.
The registration process takes 4 to 6 months to complete, on average.
There are no legal benefits for registered organizations, although an organization must be registered before it can conduct business, sign contracts, or open an account in a local bank.
Any person who holds an official position in, manages, or assists in the management of an unregistered organization is liable to a fine of up to $166 (Pula 1,000) and/or up to 7 years in prison.
Any member of an unregistered society is liable to penalties including fines up to $83 (Pula 500) and/or up to three years in prison.
Sixty-nine religious groups registered from July 2006 to May 2007; however, during this same period 256 religious groups began the process of registration but had their applications terminated.
The applications were automatically terminated after the failure to submit required forms, fees, or constitution within 90 days, as the law mandates.
No religious organization was deregistered during the reporting period.
Religious education is part of the curriculum in public schools; it emphasizes Christianity but addresses other religious groups in the country.
The Constitution provides that every religious community may establish places for religious instruction at the community's expense.
The Constitution prohibits forced religious instruction, forced participation in religious ceremonies, or taking oaths that run counter to an individual's religious beliefs.
There are no laws against proselytizing.
Only Christian holy days are recognized as public holidays.
These include Good Friday, Easter Monday, Ascension Day, and Christmas Day.
However, members of other religious groups are allowed to commemorate their religious holidays without government interference.
Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
The Constitution provides for the suspension of religious freedom in the interest of national defense, public safety, public order, public morality, or public health.
However, any suspension of religious freedom by the Government must be deemed "reasonably justifiable in a democratic society."
There were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country.
There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.
During the reporting period, there were no indications of tension between the religious communities.
Several religious groups were in the process of registering an official interfaith council which was expected to include representatives of Christian, Muslim, Hindu, and Baha'i groups.
Dr. Norman Arthur Beck (born February 27, 1933) is an Evangelical Lutheran Church in America pastor, and he serves as the contract pastor of St. John’s Lutheran Church in Stockdale (Denhawken), Texas.
He is also a Minnie Stevens Piper Foundation Professor, and writes and speaks about the relationships between Judaism, Christianity and Islam.
Also, he is the Poehlmann Professor of Theology and Classical Languages at Texas Lutheran University.
He currently teaches Intro to Theology, New Testament Studies, History of Religions, Elementary Greek, New Testament Greek Reading, Biblical Hebrew, as well as various Freshman Experience courses.
He was among the signers of "The Passion of the Christ, Jewish Pain, and Christian Responsibility: A Response to Mel Gibson's Film; A Statement by Concerned Christians" in September, 2004 [1].
He was among the signers of "An Open Letter Concerning Religion and Science," signed by members of the clergy and addressed to school board members asking them to continue teaching evolution as sound science, affirming that this did not conflict with religious beliefs [2].
Maurice Casey (Sunderland, 1942 – May 10, 2014) was a British scholar of New Testament and early Christianity.
He was an emeritus professor at the University of Nottingham, having served there as Professor of New Testament Languages and Literature at the Department of Theology.
Casey's father was the Anglican vicar of Wheatley Hill, but after his death his mother moved to Chevington and Casey to boarding school at Walsingham.
He entered Durham University having intended to become an Anglican priest, but changed his views in 1962 while completing his undergraduate degree in theology.
Casey stated that he had not held any religious beliefs since.
Casey's work argued strongly for Aramaic sources behind the New Testament documents, specifically for Q and the Gospel of Mark.
Casey's Aramaic ideas were challenged by Stanley E. Porter in Excursus: A response to Maurice Casey on the Languages of Jesus"The linguistic environment of Roman Palestine during the first century was much more complex, and allows for the possibility that Jesus himself may well have spoken Greek on occasion."
(p.164)</ref> citing modern scholarship, that the linguistic environment of Roman Palestine was probably multilingual.
He also contributed works on early Christology and the use of the term Son of Man within the New Testament Gospels in reference to Jesus.
Christian psychology is a merger of theology and psychology.
Christian psychology is a term typically used in reference to Protestant Christian psychotherapists who strive to fully embrace both their religious beliefs and their psychological training in their professional practice.
In the United States, American Psychological Association approved courses in Christian psychology are available at undergraduate and graduate levels based on applied science, Christian philosophy and a Christian understanding of psychology.
Dr. G.C.
Dilsaver is considered "the father of Christian psychology according to the Catholic University of America, but the authors of Psychology and the Church: Critical Questions/Crucial Answers suggest that Norman Vincent Peale pioneered the merger of the two fields.
Clyde M. Narramore had a major impact on the field of Christian psychology.
He was the founding president of the Rosemead School of Psychology, now affiliated with Biola University., and which has published the Journal of Psychology & Theology since 1973.
The Russian Journal Konsultativnaya Psikhologiya i Psikhoterapiya publishes a special issue on Christian Psychology every year.
Guillaume Adam de Félice, 4th Comte de Panzutti (1803–1871) was a Savoy nobleman, theologian and abolitionist.
Félice was born on 12 March 1803 in Otterberg and died on 23 October 1871 in Lausanne and was the grandson of Fortunato de Felice by his son Bernard.
Guillaume grew up in a French environment as the family settled in Lille in 1804, and inherited his grandfather's vigour for radicalism and academia.
He studied theology at Strasbourg and Lausanne universities and was accepted into the Church in 1827.
He became a pastor at the Reformed Church of Bolbec, in Normandy Seine-Maritime, then a professor of theology in Montauban, occupying the chair 'de morale et d'éloquence sacrée' (of morality and holy speech).
In later life he settled in his family town of Yverdon and married Joséphine Rivier, the daughter of a local aristocrat.
Whilst at Bolbec, it is thought that his interest in abolitionism was heightened due to its proximity to the slave-port of Le Havre.
Félice started the movement against the French slave camps in Guadeloupe, at the time a very controversial subject.
It was through his religious beliefs that he pursued his struggle against slavery, resulting in him drafting the famous French petition of 1846 in favor of abolition.
Felice maintainted a long correspondence with English abolitionists, who won their case in 1833, France abolishing slavery in 1848.
H.B.
No.
308, also known as the 'Merry Christmas bill' is a Texas bill that was signed into law by Gov.
Rick Perry on June 14, 2013.
(a) A school district may educate students about the history of traditional winter celebrations, and allow students and district staff to offer traditional greetings regarding the celebrations, including: (1) "Merry Christmas"; (2) "Happy Hanukkah"; and (3) "happy holidays."
(b) Except as provided by Subsection (c), a school district may display on school property scenes or symbols associated with traditional winter celebrations, including a menorah or a Christmas image such as a nativity scene or Christmas tree, if the display includes a scene or symbol of: (1) more than one religion; or (2) one religion and at least one secular scene or symbol.
(c) A display relating to a traditional winter celebration may not include a message that encourages adherence to a particular religious belief.
Victor Cornell of the American Civil Liberties Union has criticized the bill, asserting that the U.S. Supreme Court has prohibited religious practice being endorsed by schools unless it has a “secular instructional purpose,”
Michael York is a UK-based American Religious Studies scholar who specializes in the study of pre-Christian European religion and its relation to contemporary Paganism.
In 2003, he published Pagan Theology, in which he put forward the idea that the ancient pre-Christian and pre-Islamic religions of Eurasia, indigenous religions from across the globe, and contemporary Pagan faiths could all be constituted as forms of paganism.
Describing his own religious beliefs and his affection for paganism, York remarked that: "Myers' analysis confronts our very raison d'etre against our uncertain times.
He asks the questions that most prefer not to ask."
- as quoted by Brendan Myers on his E-commerce site.
Gabriel Moran (11 August 1935 - ) is an American scholar and teacher in the fields of Christian theology and religious education.
His writings made significant contributions to the development of Catholic theology in the years following the Second Vatican Council.
His writings have been translated into Dutch, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, and Spanish.
He holds the title of Professor Emeritus in the Department of Humanities and the Social Sciences at New York University, where he also serves as the co-director of the Philosophy of Education Program.
He was born Richard Moran in Manchester, New Hampshire, the fourth of the five children of John Moran, later the president of the municipal Manchester Transportation Company, and of his wife, Mary Murphy.
He attended the local parochial school and a Catholic high school for his basic education.
After this, he studied for a year at the University of New Hampshire.
At this point in his life, Moran entered the novitiate of the Brothers of the Christian Schools (commonly called the De La Salle or Lasallian Brothers), the first Roman Catholic teaching order of laymen, founded in 17th-century France and located in Barrytown, New York.
He received the religious habit on 7 September 1954, and was given the religious name Cyprian Gabriel.
After completing his novitiate period the following year, he was sent to complete his college studies at the Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C., where he graduated in 1958, summa cum laude, with a bachelor's degree in philosophy.
He was then assigned to a high school run by the Brothers in Providence, Rhode Island, where he taught mathematics and religion for the next three years.
During that period while he was teaching high school boys, Moran also earned a master's degree in Religious Education from Catholic University, which he completed in 1962.
His master's won widespread notice in the religious community, due to its contribution to the need for reformulating traditional categories of theological thought created by the declarations of the Council.
It was published the following year as Scripture and Tradition.
In 1962 he was assigned to teach the younger Brothers at De La Salle College in Washington, D.C., where he taught philosophy and theology, while he pursued a doctorate in Religious Education at Catholic University.
He was awarded this in 1965.
Moran moved to New York City, where he was named the director of the Graduate Program of Theology and Religious Education at Manhattan College, run by the Brothers in the Bronx (1965-1970), and at New York Theological Seminary, connected to the Episcopal Church (1968-1973).
During that period, he published Theology and Revelation, which touched on the Catholic Church's formulations of its own identity.
Like his previous book, it was met by widespread discussion.
Additionally, he was elected the Provincial Superior of the Brothers of the Province of Long Island and New England (1970-1973).
He also published Experiences in Community with Sister Maria Harris, S.S.J., another leading figure in religious education.
From that point, Moran developed a focus on adult education, shifting from the sole focus on children traditionally the focus in the field.
To develop this, he created a non-profit organization, Alternative Religious Education, of which he was president.
In 1981 Moran joined the Department of Humanities and the Social Sciences of New York University, where he taught religion, philosophy, and the history of education.
He made the decision to leave the Brothers of the Christian Schools, and was given a release from his religious vows in 1985 by the Holy See.
In April 1986 he wed his colleague, Maria Harris, who had left the convent in 1973.
They remained married until her death in 2005.
That same year he became Director of the Program of Religious Education at New York University, holding that post until 1997.
Moran's scholarship has played a significant role in ecclesiology and in the development of religious education.
This can be seen in the large number of leading figures in the field who consider his work seminal in their own development.
Ari Buddhism or the Ari Gaing ( , ) is the name given to the religious practice common in Burma prior to Anawrahta's rise and the subsequent conversion of Bagan to Theravada Buddhism in the eleventh century.
It was introduced in the 7th century, possibly through trade contact from India or Tibet.
Ari practices have largely been categorized as a tantric form of Buddhism, combining elements of Buddhism, nat worship, indigenous nāga worship and Hinduism.
Some scholars claim that it is related to the Buddhist religious practices of Nanzhao and the subsequent Dali Kingdom in modern-day Yunnan, China.
Other historians like Than Tun contend that the Aris were forest-dwelling monks who simply differed in monastic practice from Theravadin bhikkhus, especially with regard to adherence to the Vinaya, as they were much less orthodox, allowed to consume alcohol, engage in sexual relations, and eat midday.
Despite his conversion to Theravada Buddhism due to the efforts of Shin Arahan, a Mon bhikkhu, Anawrahta still supported Mahayana cultic practices and printed coins in Sanskrit rather than Pali.
The Nemenhah Indigenous Traditional Organization (Nemenhah People, Nemenhah ITO) is a convocation of Medicine Men/Women and Ministers of the Native American Church of Nemenhah (NACNEM), formerly "Numi'Pu TsuPehli Chophunsh", and "Nemenhah Band and Native American Traditional Organization", consecutively, which is the established ecclesiastical institution of the Nemenhah ITO.
The Nemenhah Band (then an independent branch of the Oklevueha/Sioux Native American Church) was formed by an independent Council of mothers representing many recognized tribes and peoples and by ratification of its constitution in 2002.
The Nemenhah Great Council (Constitutional Assembly) meets each year at the Ceremonial Grounds located in Cedar County, Missouri, one of the traditional territories cited by the ancient Nemenhah in sacred records of the Nemenhah.
The Native American Church of Nemenhah has declared Natural Medicine and all of its modalities to be sacrament, sacred objects and practice of its Native American Religion.
Therefore, all members of Nemenhah are considered Ministers of the Church as they strive to heal the individual, the family, the community, the society and the planet through sacred ceremony, with sacrament and with sacred objects.
Phillip R. Cloudpiler Landis was elected as Principle Medicine Chief by the First Mothers Council and was re-elected by the Great Council every year from 2002 to 2011.
In 2012, the Nemenhah Great Council (Constitutional Assembly) re-organized the governing offices of the organization into two distinct Branches (Ecclesiastical and Secular) and Jonathan M. Wellamotkin Landis, the son of Phillip Landis, was elected as Nehm Tiwehkthihmpt (Elected Principle/Medicine Chief and Talking Feather) of the secular government in the Nemenhah ITO.
During the Nemenhah Great Council of 2012, Phillip Landis was sustained as the Tehk Tiwehkthihmpt (Presiding High priest/President of the Native American Church of Nemenhah) of the established ecclesiastical institution of the Nemenhah ITO.
The organization is listed on the Cherokee Nations "Fraudulent Group List" of unrecognized Indian tribes., but from its inception the organization has never made claims  of seeking Tribal Status from the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs.
However, the Native American Church of Nemenhah (including prior historical denominations as an organization) has, since 2002, received affiliations with and recognition from Holy Men and Women of Federally Recognized Tribes and Bands within the United States and Alaska.
Membership in the Nemenhah is by the ancient principle and ceremony of Spiritual Adoption whereby all members become Relations.
Request for spiritual adoption is always accompanied by a sacred giveaway offering and all services by the Nemenhah, its Chiefs and Officers, and its Ministers are also requested by Sacred Giveaway in accordance with the religious practices of the ancient Nemenhah.
The Nemenhah do not dictate the religious beliefs of the Tribes, the Bands or other Peoples and naturally is neither surprised nor concerned when people of differing belief systems make derogatory comments about their religious practices.
In the Interest of competence, liability and continuing education, the Nemenhah provides a curriculum for the appropriate training of its Ministers.
Nemenhah Ministers do not consider themselves "shamans" and are concerned only with Nemenhah Religious Practices.
Whenever anyone expresses interest in "shamanic Practices" that may be associated with the Tribes, Bands or other Peoples, they are always referred to those other agencies.
Some indigenous peoples of the Americas have criticized these practices, despite blessings received by Chiefs Les' Fool-Bull and his successor, Richard Swallow, of the Eagle Clan of the Ogalalla Sioux, of the Native American Church of South Dakota and Wounded Knee, the Maca-Oyate and the numerous members of Nemenhah who are also members of State and/or Federally recognized Tribes and Bands.
The Concordat in Alsace-Moselle is the part of the Local law in Alsace-Moselle relating to the official status accorded to certain religions in these territories.
This Concordat is a remnant of the Napoleonic Concordat of 1801.
The 1801 Concordat was abrogated in the rest of France by the law of 1905 on the separation of church and state.
However, at the time, Alsace-Moselle had been annexed by Germany, so the Concordat remained in force in these areas.
The Concordat recognises four religious traditions in Alsace-Moselle: three branches of Christianity (Catholic, Lutheran and Reformed) plus the Jewish religion.
Therefore, the French concept of laïcité, a rigid separation of church and state, does not apply in this region.
Several French governments have considered repealing the Concordat, but none have done so.
On 21 February 2013, the Constitutional Council of France upheld the Concordat, reaffirming its validity, in response to an appeal from a secularist group which claimed that the Concordat in Alsace-Moselle contradicted the secular nature of the French Republic.
Under the Concordat, religious education is compulsory in French schools, at both primary and secondary level, although parents can opt for a secular equivalent, by a simple written procedure.
These religious education lessons are given by members of the faiths concerned and under the control of the respective churches.
Religious ministers in Alsace-Moselle (pastors, priests and rabbis of the four recognised faiths) receive a salary from the Interior Ministry, which, by virtue of the 1993 Lang-Cloupet agreement, is linked to civil service salary scales.
In 2012, this was said to be costing the French state 54 million euros per year.
They also qualify for unemployment benefits.
The Bishops of Metz and Strasbourg are appointed by decree of the President of the Republic, after agreement with the Holy See.
This makes France the only country in the world where some Catholic bishops are still appointed by the head of state, though the actual involvement of the French state is nowadays purely nominal.
Chief rabbis and presidents of the Jewish and Protestant consistories are appointed by the Prime Minister.
Ministers of the three Christian churches are appointed by the Interior Minister.
The University of Strasbourg includes two faculties of theology, one Protestant, the other Catholic.
These are the only theology faculties in France, although the University of Lorraine in Metz also has a theology department.
Both faculties are responsible for training ministers for their respective religious traditions.
The Catholic faculty comes directly under the authority of the Holy See, and the diplomas that it awards are recognised by the Holy See as canonical.
There have been a number of attempts to extend the coverage of the Concordat to recognise other religions, notably Islam, as well as other branches of Christianity.
Thomas H. Groome is an author, academic and former priest.
He is a professor in theology and religious education at Boston College.
Groome has been critical of the Catholic Church's stance on clerical celibacy.
Groome was born in County Kildare, Ireland.
Groome was ordained as a Catholic priest in 1968.
After he had been in the priesthood for 17 years, Groome took a one-year leave of absence.
During that time, he fell in love with a woman.
He asked for dispensation from the church and got married.
Groome said that he found celibacy to be a destructive force in his life and that his faith had been enriched by marriage.
Groome has a doctoral degree from Union Theological Seminary, Columbia University.
He has taught at seminaries in several countries.
Books have been published about his teaching in several languages.
In 1998-99, Groome was president of the Association of Professors and Researchers in Religious Education (APRRE).
As of 2014, he is a professor of theology and religious education at Boston College.
He chairs the school's Department of Religious Education and Pastoral Ministry.
In 2012, Groome said that the struggling Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston had made progress by keeping parishes from closing and by reconnecting with lapsed Catholics.
He cautioned that the archdiocese would be affected by a coming shortage of priests and said that the church would eventually have to make the decision to allow married men in the priesthood.
Writing a piece for The Boston Globe in 2002, Groome advocated for the inclusion of women in the Catholic priesthood.
"What a loss it is when ordained ministry is limited to men, excluding the consciousness and gifts of women; at best we benefit from only half our priestly resources," he wrote.
In the same article, he wrote that the priestly requirement of celibacy may have inadvertently attracted a number of gay men to the priesthood.
He said that when young men are taught that those with a homosexual orientation must remain chaste, some of those men may choose the celibate lifestyle of a priest.
Groome has written several books, including Christian Religious Education.
In that work, he developed the concept of shared Christian praxis, which Neville Clement called "groundbreaking in bringing insights from contemporary educational disciplines, philosophy, and theology to bear on Christian religious education."
He also wrote What Makes Us Catholic (2002).
Reviewing that book for Catholic Education: A Journal of Inquiry and Practice, Donna Frazier wrote that Groome was "engaging and personal" but that "readers who have left the Church might not recognize Groome’s positive vision of the Church as the same institution that hurt or disappointed them."
</ref> Publishers Weekly wrote, "Groome's reputation as an author of several Catholic school texts could make his latest book a popular resource for adult educational programs, since each chapter includes questions suitable for group discussion.
However, despite the author's claim that he writes for Catholics "who span the spectrum," his views may alienate more conservative members."
The Sultan ul Madaris ; is a Shia Islamic Madrasa (religious school) for higher religious education in Lucknow, India.
Major course of studies include Jurisprudence, Theology and Islamic Literature.
It was founded in the year 1892 by Ayatullah Syed Muhammad Abul Hasan.
The extensive madrasa buildings were erected under the supervision of the Nawab Mehdi Hasan Khan, a philanthropist of Awadh.
The foundation stone was laid down in 1911 and the central hall was inaugurated by the then Lieutenant-Governor of the United Provinces of Agra and Oudh Sir John Prescott Hewett.
Sultanul Madaris is the second Shia religious school in Lucknow.
The first one was Madrasatul Imamia - Which was closed down by the Britishers and the third being Jamia Nazmia.
The following courses are offered by the Madrasa: The first two courses Darjat Tahtaniya and Darjat Fokaania consisting of seven Darjas (levels/stages) is the primary course.
Major personalities who have received education from Sultanul Madaris include, but are not limited to:
Arthur Darby Nock (21 February 1902 – 11 January 1963) was an English classicist and theologian, regarded as a leading scholar in the history of religion.
He was a professor at Harvard University from 1930 until his death.
Nock was born in Portsmouth, England in 1902 to Cornelius and Alice Mary Ann Nock.
Nock studied at Trinity College at Cambridge University, where he was awarded his bachelor's degree in 1922 and master's degree in 1926.
He became a fellow at Clare College in Cambridge in 1923 and then served as a university lecturer in Classics starting in 1926.
In 1930, he became Frothingham Professor of the History of Religion at Harvard University in the United States (as successor to George Foot Moore), where he remained the rest of his life.
At 28, he was the youngest full professor at Harvard in half a century.
As a guest lecturer, he held lectures at various universities, such as Harvard, Trinity College in Dublin (Donnellan Lecturer, 1931), King's Chapel in Boston, and University of Aberdeen (Gifford Lecturer, 1939 and 1946).
As a scholar of religion, Nock was of international importance, as evidenced not only by his extensive work as a guest lecturer, but also by his membership in numerous academies.
He was a corresponding member of the British Academy, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (1932), the Prussian Academy of Sciences (since 1937), the German Archaeological Institute (since 1937) and the Bavarian Academy of Sciences (since 1938).
He also received a doctorate from the University of Birmingham (Doctor of Letters in 1934) and an honorary doctorate from both the Sorbonne in Paris (1950) and the Jewish Theological Seminary of America in New York (1960).
He was an editor of the Harvard Theological Review from 1930 until his death.
Nock believed that religion was an important subject to be studied, saying "The term religion must be regarded as embracing all thought and language and action which man directs towards the unknown forces around him.
It includes those proceedings and attitudes which can technically be classified as magical as well as religious; it includes much which later ripens into philosophy and science."
To this end, he advocated the creation of a doctoral degree in the History and Philosophy of Religion at Harvard in order to better prepare students to teach the subject of religion.
The degree program was implemented in October 1934.
As a member of the steering committee created to guide the creation of the doctorate, Nock ensured that it would include the study of all manner of religious beliefs, from ancient Greek and Roman to Jewish and Indian.
This comparative study of world religions eventually became the main focus of the degree, following a review in the 1950s.
After a week of illness, Nock died on 11 January 1963 in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Religious texts, also known as scripture, scriptures, holy writ, or holy books, are the texts which various religious traditions consider to be sacred, or central to their religious tradition.
Many religions and spiritual movements believe that their sacred texts are divinely or supernaturally revealed or inspired.
The oldest known religious text is the Kesh Temple Hymn of Ancient Sumer, the oldest version of which dates to around 2600 BCE.
The earliest form of the Phoenician alphabet found to date is the inscription on the sarcophagus of King Ahiram of Byblos (The Sumerian Temple Hymns) circa 1000 BCE.
The Epic of Gilgamesh from Sumer, with origins as early as 2150-2000 BCE, is also one of the earliest literary works that includes various mythological figures.
The Rigveda of Hinduism is proposed to have been composed over several centuries between 1700–1100 BCE making it probably the world's oldest religious text still in use.
Oberlies gives an estimate of 1100 BC for the youngest hymns in book 10.
The oldest portions of the Zoroastrian Avesta are believed to have been transmitted orally for centuries before they found written form, and although widely differing dates for Gathic Avestan have been proposed, scholarly consensus floats at around 1000 - 600 BCE.
The majority of scholars agree that the Torah's composition took place over centuries.
From the late 19th century there was a general consensus around the documentary hypothesis, which suggests that the five books were created c.450 BCE by combining four originally independent sources, known as the Jahwist, or J (about 900 BCE), the Elohist, or E (about 800 BCE), the Deuteronomist, or D, (about 600 BCE), and the Priestly source, or P (about 500 BC).
The first scripture printed for wide distribution to the masses was the Diamond Sutra, a Buddhist scripture, and is the earliest recorded example of a dated printed text, bearing the Chinese calendar date for 11 May 868 CE.
Attitudes to sacred texts differ.
Some religions make written texts widely and freely available, while others hold that sacred secrets must remain hidden from all but the loyal and the initiate.
Most religions promulgate policies defining the limits of the sacred texts and controlling or forbidding changes and additions.
Some religions view their sacred texts as the "Word of God", often contending that the texts are inspired by God and as such not open to alteration.
Translations of texts may receive official blessing, but an original sacred language often has de facto, absolute or exclusive paramountcy.
Some religions make texts available free or in subsidized form; others require payment and the strict observance of copyright.
References to scriptures profit from standardisation: the Guru Granth Sahib (of Sikhism) always appears with standardised page numbering while many other religions (including the Abrahamic religions and their offshoots) favour chapter and verse pointers.
Terms like "Holy Writ", "Holy Scripture" or "Sacred Scripture" are often used by adherents to describe the canonical works of their religion to denote the text's importance, its status as divine revelation, or, as in the case of many Christian groups, its complete inerrancy.
Christianity is not alone in using this terminology to revere its sacred book; Islam holds the Qur'an in similar esteem, as does Hinduism the Vedas and Bhagavad Gita and Buddhism the sutras.
Hierographology (Ancient Greek: ἱερός, hieros, "sacred" or "holy"; γραφή, graphe, "writing"; λόγος, logos, "word" or "reason") (archaically also 'hierology') is the study of sacred texts.
Increasingly, sacred texts of many cultures are studied within academic contexts, primarily to increase understanding of other cultures, whether ancient or contemporary.
Sometimes this involves the extension of the principles of higher criticism to the texts of many faiths.
It may also involve a comparative study of religious texts.
Various New Age religions may regard any of the following texts as inspired:
James Holt is a British scholar of Latter-day Saint religion and history and a senior lecturer in religious education at the University of Chester.
Holt has degrees from Manchester Metropolitan University, the University of Chester and the University of Birmingham.
He published Religious Education in the Secondary School: An introduction to teaching, learning and the World Religions through Routledge in 2015.
In this he outlines his approach to teaching RE.
This includes a pedagogy he describes as a 'Kaleidoscopic' approach which draws on existing pedagogies of RE.
He serves on the editorial board of the International Journal of Mormon Studies.
In March 2010, Holt was among the presenters at the BYU Studies 50th anniversary symposium.
Holt has also done a study specifically considering the LDS experience in Britain's religious education curriculum.
Holt and his wife Ruth, who married in 1995, are the parents of four children.
Holt served as a missionary for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) in the Scotland Edinburgh Mission (1991–93).
During this time, his mission presidents were Joseph Fielding McConkie and Ian D. Swanney.
Returning from his mission, Holt completed a BA in theology and history at Chester College, then part of the University of Liverpool.
On conclusion of those studies, he trained as a secondary school teacher in history and religious studies at Manchester Metropolitan University.
Holt then taught religious studies in two Manchester schools for 12 years before taking up his current role at the University of Chester.
His service in the LDS Church includes five years as bishop of the Hyde Ward, and service on the presidency of the Manchester England Stake from 2004 to 2011.
Holt has also served on the National Public Affairs Committee for the church, and was Stake Director of Public Affairs in Manchester.
He was also Director of Communications for the British Pageant of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and also served on the Curriculum Writing Committee of the Church.
He is currently serving as Bishop of the Hyde Ward for a second time, a role he has held since October 2014.
In addition to his professional and church responsibilities, Holt completed a PhD in Mormon theology at the University of Chester (the degree being awarded by the University of Liverpool).
His PhD focussed around an LDS theology of religions and its implications for interfaith dialogue.
Arising out of this work he has presented papers at the BYU Studies symposium outlined earlier, and a Mormon Scholars in the Humanities conference at Southern Virginia University.
Holt has also presented papers and written articles ranging from an exploration of Tolkien's religious imagery, aspects of Mormon theology to the teaching of religious education.
He identifies these three strands as his major research interests.
Holt has served on the National Council of the Professional Council for Religious Education (now NATRE); delivered training courses on religious education around the United Kingdom and also published a chapter of a book entitled Beyond the big six: New Religious Movements in the RE Classroom; a teachers' resource guide for the Edexcel GCSE about Buddhism (Pearson, 2010); and various other works.
He is currently a principal examiner for a traditional and an International GCSE for one of the examination boards in England.
Religious Education in the Secondary School: An Introduction to teaching, learning and the world religions Routledge, 2015 Chapters in Books <br /> “Religion in the Ender’s Saga?” in D. Wikktower, ed., Ender’s Game and Philosophy, (Chicago: Open Court, 2013) <br /> “Faith based practice?
The impact of a teacher’s beliefs on the classroom” in D. Morris, ed., Re-Imagining Christian Education for the 21st Century chapter 17 (Chelmsford: Matthew James, 2013).
<br /> “Beyond the Big Six: Minority Religions in the Secondary RE Classroom” in Schmack et al., ed Engaging RE Cambridge Scholars, 2010 School Resources IGCSE Religious Studies: Christianity and Islam ICS, 2011 <br /> Buddhism for Edexcel GCSE Teacher’s and Pupil Guide Pearson, 2010 <br /> Muslims in Britain: A Scheme of Work and Teaching Resources Muslim Youth Foundation, 2009 <br /> Key Stage 4 Islam Interactive Activities Boardworks, 2009 <br /> With Gordon Reid and Sarah Tyler Religion and Life: Edexcel GCSE Religion and Life CD Rom, Pearson, 2009 Articles “A Latter-day Saint approach to addiction, its aetiology and treatment” in Religions (2015), 6, 1–13 http://www.mdpi.com/2077-1444/6/1/1 “Teaching and a Teacher’s Faith and Beliefs” in REsource 35: 2 (Spring 2013) pp7–9 <br /> 2012 “The Dichotomy of Latter-day Saint Interfaith Commentary” in BYU Studies <br /> “Interfaith Dialogue: A Way Forward in Setting Ground Rules” in Sacred Tribes Journal Volume 7 Number 1 (2012): 70-79  <br /> 2011 “My Experience of Teaching Islam” in Muslim Youth Foundation Educational Supplement Issue 1 pp10–11  <br /> 2007 “Guided imagination as a basis for understanding the importance of special places”  <br /> "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the R.E.
Classroom” in REsource.
The Journal of the Professional Council of Religious Education Summer 2002 <br /> "Jehovah’s Witnesses and the R.E.
Classroom” in REsource.
Spring 2004 <br /> “The frontiers of Christianity” in RE Today 22:2 Spring 2005 p34
Ivar Asheim (born 5 August 1927, Vartdal) is a Norwegian theologian known for his early research into Christian education (from a Lutheran perspective) and later publications investigating the moral theology of Martin Luther, including its relation to Aristotelian virtue ethics.
Asheim earned his doctorate in theology in 1961 for thesis entitled Faith and Education according to Martin Luther, which explored the role of Luther’s pedagogical thought in his theological programme.
Since the publication of Religious Education: Interpretation, Education, and Upbringing in 1987, Asheim's works have focused on ethics.
The majority of Asheim's theological career has been passed at the MF Norwegian School of Theology.
He was appointed to a senior lectureship there in 1963, a post he vacated to serve as director of the theological department at the Lutheran World Federation in Geneva from 1965 to 1970.
In 1970 he returned to the School of Theology as Professor of Religious Education, and was appointed to the chair of Ethics in 1979, which he held until his retirement in 1994.
He is widely acknowledged as a prominent voice amongst the Norwegian theologians of the late twentieth century, serving in retirement as a Senior Researcher at the Research Council of Norway (1994-1997) and as the inaugural chairman of the Norwegian Church Doctrinal Commission (1987-1991).
He has been a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters since 1980, and was elected to the Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences and Letters in 1995.
He married Tora Raastad in 1957.
Secular Homeschooling was an American magazine for people who homeschool for reasons other than religion.
It began as a quarterly, but became a bimonthly in July 2009.
The magazine is no longer published and the final issue was released in 2011.
Because the magazine was written (and, presumably read) by people who consider religious belief a personal matter rather than a prerequisite of homeschooling, it might be seen as reflecting the diversity of the homeschooling community.
As a specifically non-religious magazine, Secular Homeschooling discussed some topics differently from other homeschooling magazines.
For example, one article discussed the particular difficulties of discussing and dealing with death for the non religious.
In the article "The Most Difficult Subject", the author writes that death is, to religious families "less threatening as a concept, it’s also much more frequent and natural a subject of conversation and thought" because some of their religious beliefs focus on death (Jesus' death and resurrection, for example).
The magazine occasionally ran humor as well.
One piece, "The Bitter Homeschooler's Wish List" – "a wish list from one homeschooler to other parents who ask annoying and inappropriate questions about the decision to homeschool" – has been described as a "legendary Internet screed".
The list bitterly points out that not all homeschoolers are religious or homeschool for religious reasons, and that homeschoolers of all types tire of being criticized.
The Sabine Parish School Board is an entity responsible for the operation of public schools in Sabine Parish, Louisiana, United States.
It is headquartered in the town of Many.
In January 2014, the ACLU filed suit against the Sabine Parish School Board, Superintendent Sara Ebarb, Principal Gene Wright and teacher Rita Roark of Negreet High School, alleging officials at one of its schools harassed a sixth-grader because of his Buddhist faith and that the district routinely pushes Christian beliefs upon their students.
Andrew Cohen of The Atlantic stated that if the accusations are true, the district would have no legal defense.
He added that the school and district administration would be "converting a public school into a Christian school in flagrant violation of the law."
In March 2014, the U.S. District Court ruled against the school board.
The court declared; [t]he District and School Board are permanently enjoined from permitting School Officials at any school within the School District to promote their personal religious beliefs to students in class or during or in conjunction with a School Event.” Furthermore, "School Officials shall not denigrate any particular faith, or lack thereof, or single out any student for disfavor or criticism because of his or her particular faith or religious belief, or lack thereof."
Since attaining its independence from Spain, Cuba has had 9 constitutions.
The current constitution was drafted in 1976 and has since been amended.
The 1901 Constitution was Cuba's first as an independent state.
It contained the Platt Amendment, which allowed the United States to intervene in Cuba's affairs to protect its independence.
Cuba's second constitution came into effect in 1934.
This document was intended to be a provisional constitution.
In 1940, during the de facto presidency of Federico Laredo Brú, a constitution was created.
It provided for land reform, public education, minimum wage and other progressive ideas.
Some of its provisions were not implemented in practice.
Following a coup d'etat by Fulgencio Batista in 1952, parts of this constitution were suspended.
After 16 years of extra-constitutional rule (1959–1975), used to consolidate its power, the revolutionary government of Cuba sought to institutionalize the revolution.
The Socialist Constitution of 1976 was adopted by referendum on February 15, in which it was approved by 97.7% of voters.
The document came into effect on February 24, 1976.
This constitution called for a centralized control of the market, and committed the State to providing its citizens with access to free education and health care.
The state had the power to regulate the activities of religious institutions on the island, and the private ownership of media companies was forbidden.
In the late 1980s, as the Eastern Bloc collapsed, the laws of Cuba changed to respond to the new conditions of the Special Period.
The constitutional amendments of 1992 granted foreign corporations a limited right to own property on the island if they took part in joint ventures with the government.
It also provided for non-discrimination based on religious belief, allowing persons with religious beliefs to join the Communist Party of Cuba.
In 2002, the constitution was amended to stipulate that the socialistic system was permanent and irrevocable.
Religious skepticism is a type of skepticism relating to religion.
Religious skeptics question religious authority and are not necessarily anti-religious but are those skeptical of a specific or all religious beliefs and/or practices.
Some are deists, believing in a non-interventionist god(s) and rejecting mainstream religions.
Socrates was one of the first religious skeptics of whom there are records; he questioned the legitimacy of the beliefs of his time in the existence of the Greek gods.
Religious skepticism generally refers to doubting given religious beliefs or claims.
Historically, religious skepticism can be traced back to Socrates, who doubted many religious claims of the time.
Modern religious skepticism typically emphasizes scientific and historical methods or evidence, with Michael Shermer writing that it is a process for discovering the truth rather than general non-acceptance.
For this reason a religious skeptic might believe that Jesus existed while questioning claims that he was the messiah or performed miracles (see historicity of Jesus).
Religious skepticism is not the same as atheism or agnosticism, though these often do involve skeptical attitudes toward religion and philosophical theology (for example, towards divine omnipotence).
Religious people are generally skeptical about claims of other religions, at least when the two denominations conflict concerning some stated belief.
Additionally, they may also be skeptical of the claims made by atheists.
The historian Will Durant writes that Plato was "as skeptical of atheism as of any other dogma."
Religious studies is the academic field of multi-disciplinary, secular study of religious beliefs, behaviors, and institutions.
It describes, compares, interprets, and explains religion, emphasizing systematic, historically based, and cross-cultural perspectives.
While theology attempts to understand the nature of transcendent or supernatural forces (such as deities), religious studies tries to study religious behavior and belief from outside any particular religious viewpoint.
Religious studies draws upon multiple disciplines and their methodologies including anthropology, sociology, psychology, philosophy, and history of religion.
Religious studies originated in the 19th century, when scholarly and historical analysis of the Bible had flourished, and Hindu and Buddhist texts were first being translated into European languages.
Early influential scholars included Friedrich Max Müller, in England, and Cornelius P. Tiele, in the Netherlands.
Today religious studies is practiced by scholars worldwide.
In its early years, it was known as Comparative Religion or the Science of Religion and, in the USA, there are those who today also know the field as the History of religion (associated with methodological traditions traced to the University of Chicago in general, and in particular Mircea Eliade, from the late 1950s through to the late 1980s).
The field is known as Religionswissenschaft in Germany and Sciences des religions in the French-speaking world.
The term "religion" originated from the Latin noun "religio", that was nominalized from one of three verbs: "relegere" (to turn to constantly/observe conscientiously); "religare" (to bind oneself [back]); and "reeligere" (to choose again).
Because of these three different potential meanings, an etymological analysis alone does not resolve the ambiguity of defining religion, since each verb points to a different understanding of what religion is.
During the Medieval Period, the term "religious" was used as a noun to describe someone who had joined a monastic order (a "religious").
Despite this change in meaning, it is important to note the term "religion" is primarily a Christian term.
Judaism and Hinduism, for example, do not include this term in their vocabulary.
Western philosophy of religion, as the basic ancestor of modern religious studies, is differentiated from theology and the many Eastern philosophical traditions by generally being written from a third party perspective.
The scholar need not be a believer.
Theology stands in contrast to the philosophy of religion and religious studies in that, generally, the scholar is first and foremost a believer employing both logic and scripture as evidence.
Theology according to this understanding fits with the definition which Anselm of Canterbury gave to it in the 11th century, credo ut intelligam, or faith seeking understanding (literally, "I believe so that I may understand").
The theologian then has the task of making intelligible, or clarifying, the religious commitments to which he or she subscribes.
The scholar of religious studies has no such allegiances.
Before religious studies became a field in its own right, flourishing in the United States in the late 1960s, several key intellectual figures explored religion from a variety of perspectives.
One of these figures was the famous pragmatist William James.
His 1902 Gifford lectures and book The Varieties of Religious Experience examined religion from a psychological-philosophical perspective and is still influential today.
His essay The Will to Believe defends the rationality of faith.
Max Weber studied religion from an economic perspective in The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism (1904-5), his most famous work.
As a major figure in sociology, he has no doubt influenced later sociologists of religion.
Émile Durkheim also holds continuing influence as one of the fathers of sociology.
He explored Protestant and Catholic attitudes and doctrines regarding suicide in his work Suicide.
In 1912 he published his most memorable work on religion, The Elementary Forms of the Religious Life.
Interest in the general study of religion dates back to at least Hecataeus of Miletus (ca.
550 BCE &ndash; ca.
476 BCE) and Herodotus (ca.
484 BCE &ndash; 425 BCE).
Later, during the Middle Ages, Islamic scholars such as Ibn Hazm (d. 1064 CE) studied Persian, Jewish, Christian, and Indian religions, among others.
The first history of religion was the Treatise on the Religious and Philosophical Sects (1127 CE), written by the Muslim scholar Muhammad al-Shahrastani.
Peter the Venerable, also working in the twelfth century, studied Islam and made possible a Latin translation of the Qur'an.
Notwithstanding the long interest in the study of religion, the academic discipline Religious Studies is relatively new.
Dr. Chris Partridge notes that the "first professorships were established as recently as the final quarter of the nineteenth century.
"[ [1] In the nineteenth century, the study of religion was done through the eyes of science.
Max Müller was the first Professor of Comparative Philology at Oxford University, a chair created especially for him.
In his Introduction to the Science of Religion (1873) he wrote that it is "the duty of those who have devoted their life to the study of the principal religions of the world in their original documents, and who value and reverence it in whatever form it may present itself, to take possession of this new territory in the name of true science."
Partridge writes that "by the second half of the twentieth century the study of religion had emerged as a prominent and important field of academic enquiry."
He cites the growing distrust of the empiricism of the nineteenth century and the growing interest in non-Christian religions and spirituality coupled with convergence of the work of social scientists and that of scholars of religion as factors involved in the rise of Religious Studies.
One of the earliest academic institutions where Religious Studies was presented as a distinct subject was University College Ibadan, now the University of Ibadan, where Geoffrey Parrinder was appointed as lecturer in Religious Studies in 1949.
In the 1960s and 1970s, the term "religious studies" became common and interest in the field increased.
New departments were founded and influential journals of religious studies were initiated (for example, Religious Studies and Religion).
In the forward to Approaches to the Study of Religion, Ninian Smart wrote that "in the English-speaking world [religious studies] basically dates from the 1960s, although before then there were such fields as 'the comparative study of religion', the 'history of religion', the 'sociology of religion' and so on..." In the 1980s, in both Britain and America, "the decrease in student applications and diminishing resources in the 1980s led to cut backs affecting religious studies departments."
(Partridge) Later in the decade, religious studies began to pick up as a result of integrating religious studies with other disciplines and forming programs of study that mixed the discipline with more utilitarian study.
Philosophy of religion uses philosophical tools to evaluate religious claims and doctrines.
Western philosophy has traditionally been employed by English speaking scholars.
(Some other cultures have their own philosophical traditions including Indian, Muslim, and Jewish.)
Common issues considered by the (Western) philosophy of religion are the existence of God, belief and rationality, cosmology, and logical inferences of logical consistency from sacred texts.
Although philosophy has long been used in evaluation of religious claims (e.g.
Augustine and Pelagius's debate concerning original sin), the rise of scholasticism in the 11th century, which represented "the search for order in intellectual life" (Russell, 170), more fully integrated the Western philosophical tradition (with the introduction of translations of Aristotle) in religious study.
There is some amount of overlap between subcategories of religious studies and the discipline itself.
Religious studies seeks to study religious phenomena as a whole, rather than be limited to the approaches of its subcategories.
The anthropology of religion is principally concerned with the common basic human needs that religion fulfills.
The cultural anthropology of religion is principally concerned with the cultural aspects of religion.
Of primary concern to the cultural anthropologist of religions are rituals, beliefs, religious art, and practices of piety.
Gallup surveys have found that the world's poorest countries may be the most religious.
Of those countries with average per-capita incomes under $2000, 95% reported that religion played an important role in their daily lives.
This is contrasted by the average of 47% from the richest countries, with incomes over $25000 (with the United States breaking the trend by reporting at 65%).
Social scientists have suggested that religion plays a functional role (helping people cope) in poorer nations.
The New York Times offers a graphic illustrating the correlation (not necessarily causation) between religion and poverty.
The geography of religion is principally concerned with the spatial elements of religious practice and embodiment.
In the 1960s and 1970s, geographers of religion such as Wilbur Zelinsky and David Sopher were mostly associated with the "Berkeley school" of cultural geography and focused mostly on the cultural imprints of religion on the landscape.
Since the turn in the new cultural geography of religion through the work of James Duncan on the City as Text, geographers of religion have focused on what Lily Kong has called the "politics and poetics" of religion, especially in relation to the political geographies of secular nation-states.
Recent interest in the geography of religion has focused on how religious practitioners enact sacred space through their embodied sacred practices as well as the relationship between religion and geopolitics.
The history of religions is not concerned with theological claims apart from their historical significance.
Some topics of this discipline are the historicity of religious figures, events, and the evolution of doctrinal matters.
There are many approaches to the study of sacred texts.
One of these approaches is to interpret the text as a literary object.
Metaphor, thematic elements, and the nature and motivations of the characters are of interest in this approach.
An example of this approach is God: A Biography, by Jack Miles.
The temporal lobe has been of interest which has been termed the "God center" of the brain.
9) Neurological findings in regard to religious experience is not a widely accepted discipline within religious studies.
Scientific investigators have used a SPECTscanner to analyze the brain activity of both Christian contemplatives and Buddhist meditators, finding them to be quite similar.
The "origin of religion" refers to the emergence of religious behavior in prehistory, before written records.
The psychology of religion is concerned with the psychological principles operative in religious communities and practitioners.
William James's The Varieties of Religious Experience analyzed personal experience as contrasted with the social phenomenon of religion.
Some issues of concern to the psychologist of religions are the psychological nature of religious conversion, the making of religious decisions, religion and happiness, and the psychological factors in evaluating religious claims.
Sigmund Freud was another figure in the field of psychology and religion.
He used his psychoanalytic theory to explain religious beliefs, practices, and rituals, in order to justify the role of religion in the development of human culture.
The sociology of religion concerns the dialectical relationship between religion and society; the practices, historical backgrounds, developments, universal themes and roles of religion in society.
There is particular emphasis on the recurring role of religion in all societies and throughout recorded history.
The sociology of religion is distinguished from the philosophy of religion in that it does not set out to assess the validity of religious beliefs, though the process of comparing multiple conflicting dogmas may require what Peter L. Berger has described as inherent "methodological atheism".
Whereas the sociology of religion broadly differs from theology in assuming the invalidity of the supernatural, theorists tend to acknowledge socio-cultural reification of religious practise.
It may be said that the modern formal discipline of sociology began with the analysis of religion in Durkheim's 1897 study of suicide rates amongst Catholic and Protestant populations.
The works of Max Weber emphasised the relationship between religious belief and the economic foundations of society.
Contemporary debates have centred on issues such as secularization, civil religion, and the cohesiveness of religion in the context of globalization and multiculturalism.
The sociology of religion also deals with how religion impacts society regarding the positive and negatives of what happens when religion is mixed with society.
Theorist such as Marx states that “religion is the opium of the people” - the idea that religion has become a way for people to deal with their problems.
At least one comprehensive study refutes this idea.
Research has found that secular democracies like France or Scandinavia outperform more theistic democracies on various measures of societal health.
The authors explains, "Pressing questions include the reasons, whether theistic or non-theistic, that the exceptionally wealthy U.S. is so inefficient that it is experiencing a much higher degree of societal distress than are less religious, less wealthy prosperous democracies.
Conversely, how do the latter achieve superior societal health while having little in the way of the religious values or institutions?"
Vogel reports that in the 1970s a new "law and religion" approach has progressively built its own contribution to religious studies.
Over a dozen scholarly organizations and committees were formed by 1983, and a scholarly quarterly, the Journal of Law and Religion first published that year and the Ecclesiastical Law Journal opened in 1999.
Many departments and centers have been created around the world during the last decades.
As of 2012, major Law and Religion organizations in the U.S. included 500 law professors, 450 political scientists, and specialists in numerous other fields such as history and religious studies.
Between 1985 and 2010, the field saw the publication of some 750 books and 5000 scholarly articles.
Scholars are not only focused on strictly legal issues about religious freedom or non establishment but also on the study of religions as they are qualified through judicial discourses or legal understanding on religious phenomena.
Exponents look at canon law, natural law, and state law, often in comparative perspective.
Specialists have explored themes in western history regarding Christianity and justice and mercy, rule and equity, discipline and love.
Common topics on interest include marriage and the family, and human rights.
Moving beyond Christianity, scholars have looked at law and religion interrelations in law and religion in the Muslim Middle East, and pagan Rome.
A number of methodologies are used in Religious Studies.
Methodologies are hermeneutics, or interpretive models, that provide a structure for the analysis of religious phenomena.
Phenomenology is "arguably the most influential approach to the study of religion in the twentieth century."
(Partridge) The term is first found in the title of the work of the influential philosopher of German Idealism, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, entitled The Phenomenology of Spirit.
Phenomenology had been practiced long before its being made explicit as a philosophical method by Edmund Husserl, who is considered to be its founder.
In the context of Phenomenology of religion however, the term was first used by Pierre Daniel Chantepie de la Saussaye in his work "Lehrbuch der Religiongeschichte" (1887).
Chantepie's phenomenology catalogued observable characteristics of religion much like a zoologist would categorize animals or an entomologist would categorize insects.
In part due to Husserl's influence, "phenomenology" came to "refer to a method which is more complex and claims rather more for itself than did Chantepie’s mere cataloguing of facts."
(Partridge) Husserl argued that the foundation of knowledge is consciousness.
He recognized "how easy it is for prior beliefs and interpretations to unconsciously influence one’s thinking, Husserl’s phenomenological method sought to shelve all these presuppositions and interpretations."
(Partridge) Husserl introduced the term "eidetic vision" to describe the ability to observe without "prior beliefs and interpretations" influencing understanding and perception.
His other main conceptual contribution is the idea of the epoche: setting aside metaphysical questions and observing phenomena in and of themselves, without any bias or commitments on the part of the investigator.
The epoche, also known as phenomenological reduction or bracketing, involves approaching a phenomenon or phenomena from a neutral standpoint, instead of with our own particular attitudes.
In performing this reduction, whatever phenomenon or phenomena we approach are understood in themselves, rather than from our own perspectives.
In the field of religious studies, a contemporary advocate of the phenomenological method is Ninian Smart.
He suggests that we should perform the epoche as a means to engage in cross-cultural studies.
In doing so, we can take the beliefs, symbols, rituals etc.
of the other from within their own perspective, rather than imposing ours on them.
Another earlier scholar who employs the phenomenological method for studying religion is Gerardus van der Leeuw.
In his Religion in Essence and Manifestation (1933), he outlines what a phenomenology of religion should look like: The subjectivity inherent to the phenomenological study of religion makes complete and comprehensive understanding highly difficult.
However, phenomenologists aim to separate their formal study of religion from their own theological worldview and to eliminate, as far as possible, any personal biases (e.g., a Christian phenomenologist would avoid studying Hinduism through the lens of Christianity).
There are a number of both theoretical and methodological attitudes common among phenomenologists:source <blockquote> Functionalism, in regard to religious studies, is the analysis of religions and their various communities of adherents using the functions of particular religious phenomena to interpret the structure of religious communities and their beliefs.
A major criticism of functionalism is that it lends itself to teleological explanations.
An example of a functionalist approach is understanding the dietary restrictions contained in the Pentateuch as having the function of promoting health or providing social identity (i.e.
a sense of belonging though common practice).
Lived religion is the ethnographic and holistic framework for understanding the beliefs, practices, and everyday experiences of religious and spiritual persons in religious studies.
The name lived religion comes from the French tradition of sociology of religion "la religion vécue".
The concept of lived religion was popularized in the late 20th century by religious study scholars like Robert A. Orsi and David Hall.
The study of lived religion has come to include a wide range of subject areas as a means of exploring and emphasizing what a religious person does and what they believe.
Today, the field of lived religion is expanding to include many topics and scholars.
A group of scholars have criticized religious studies beginning in the 1990s as a theological project which actually imposes views onto the people it aims to survey.
Prominent voices in this critical view include Robert A. Orsi, Timothy Fitzgerald, Talal Asad, Tomoko Masuzawa, G.A.
Oddie, Richard King, Russell T. McCutcheon, and Daniel Dubuisson.
Their areas of research overlap heavily with postcolonial studies.
There are a large numbers of peer-reviewed scholarly journals in the discipline of Religious Studies.
Many journals focus on particular sub-fields of the discipline or particular religious traditions, such as Judaism or Islam.
The following is a small sample of such journals:
The Bachelor of Theology (B.Th., Th.B.
or BTheol) is a three to five year undergraduate degree in theological disciplines.
Candidates for this degree typically must complete course work in Greek or Hebrew, as well as systematic theology, biblical theology, ethics, homiletics, hermeneutics and Christian ministry.
It does not require a thesis but is often a year longer than a Bachelor of Religious Education or Bachelor of Arts.
In some denominations, notably the Church of England, it is considered sufficient for formal ordination.
In South Asia, many mainline Churches including the Pentecostals send their candidates to affiliated colleges under the Senate of Serampore College (University) where B.Th.
degree is taught in regional languages.
In some schools, the BTh is a three-year degree for mature students pursuing ordination, who do not hold a degree and for whom the requirement of a Master of Divinity has been waived.
Four Dissertations is a collection of four essays by the Scottish enlightenment philosopher David Hume, first published in 1757.
<ol type=I><li>The Natural History of Religion <li>Of the Passions <li>Of Tragedy <li>Of the Standard of Taste</ol> In this essay, Hume pioneers a naturalist account of the causes, effects, and historical development of religious belief.
Hume locates the origins of religion in emotion, particularly fear and the desire to control the future.
He further argues that monotheism arises from competition between religions, as believers seek to distinguish their deities as superior to all rivals.
The monotheist drive to dominate other beliefs, and to burnish the primitive, emotional core of religion under a veneer of theology, Hume concludes that this yields intolerance, intellectual dishonesty, and unnatural moral doctrines.
Hume begins the passions by giving a trite example of what Good and Evil are.
He then begins to analyze emotion as a reasoning faculty of the human mind.
He argues that not only can emotions mix, they can also destroy one another.
He also argues that our imagination and sentiments combine to create an impression of something/someone.
For example, you see your grade on a test and it is good, you then attribute that good grade to having a good teacher, and even maybe an interest in the class as well.
Hume tries to exclude religion from our reasoning faculty of right and wrong in that we make our decisions based on the over-riding passion during that moment.
Your wife may divorce you, but I bet winning the lottery would make you forget about it.
He concludes by saying that this mixture of emotion and sentiments give rise to hope and fear, which gives rise to religion in ancient society.
Of Tragedy, is where Hume considered why we enjoy tragic drama.
He was concerned with why spectators find pleasure in the sorrow and anxiety depicted in a tragedy.
He decided that this was because the spectator is aware that he is witnessing a dramatic performance.
There is pleasure in realizing that the terrible events that are being shown are actually fiction.
Of the Standard of Taste was a seminal essay on aesthetics that is innovative because it requires Hume to address the apparent relativity of taste, a conclusion that appears to follow from his own assumption that the "good" or "beauty" of a good work of art is identical with the positive human responses it generates.
The essay's focus on the subject (the viewer, the reader) rather than the object (the painting, the book) is typical of the British "sentimentalists" or moral sense theorists of the eighteenth century.
Unlike the French philosophers of the eighteenth century, who sought an objective definition of beauty, the British school tended to look for the connections between taste and aesthetic judgments.
Hume begins with the observation that there is much variety in people's taste (or the aesthetic judgments people make).
However, Hume argues that there is a common mechanism in human nature that gives rise to, and often even provides justification for, such judgments.
He takes this aesthetic sense to be quite similar to the moral sense for which he argues in his Book 3 of A Treatise of Human Nature (1739–1740) and in An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals (1751).
Furthermore, he argues that this still leaves room for the ability to refine one's aesthetic palate.
Hume took as his premise that the great diversity and disagreement regarding matters of taste had two basic sources - sentiment, which was to some degree naturally varying, and critical facility, which could be cultivated.
Each person is a combination of these of two sources, and Hume endeavours to delineate the admirable qualities of a critic, that they might augment their natural sense of beauty into a reliable faculty of judgment.
There are a variety of qualities of the good critic that he describes, each of which contributes to an ultimately reliable and just ability to judge.
A multifaith space or multifaith prayer room is a quiet location set aside in a busy public place (hospital, university, airport, etc.)
where people of differing religious beliefs, or none at all, are able to spend time in contemplation or prayer.
Many of these spaces are "small, clean and largely unadorned areas", which can be adapted and serve for any religious or spiritual practice.
</ref> Rarely, persons of different faiths may come together in such spaces within the context of multifaith worship services.
The space may or may not be a dedicated place of worship.
A recent research project at the University of Manchester, UK has conceptualised the modern multifaith space as "an intentional space, designed to both house a plurality of religious practices, as well as address clearly defined pragmatic purposes."
The Manchester University research highlighted two key factors for a multifaith space to work: U.S. President Barack Obama, in the fall of 2011 launched the "President’s Interfaith and Community Service Campus Challenge" in which he encourages interfaith cooperation and community service, using that service as a tool to build common ground between the various faith groups involved.
This creates a platform from which to launch peaceful and productive dialogue.
Following the program launch, approximately 250 colleges and universities made "the vision for interfaith cooperation and community service a reality on campuses across the country."
According to the Interfaith Youth Core the campus concept makes a good model, as campuses can be categorized as diverse communities, active in community service work, and take an important role in the larger community.
The acts and behaviors of students can impact a campus environment and climate, which can then, in the long run, have an impact in society at large.
Campuses across the world join this movement to foster interfaith cooperation.
Better Together is a national student campaign for interfaith action, allowing students to engage and voice their opinions in working together toward bettering the community.
Better Together promotes leadership rooted in a person’s beliefs, builds community no matter how different those beliefs may seem, and that strong community is able to serve others.
Jacob K. Olupona is Professor of African Religious Traditions and Chair of the Committee on African studies at the Harvard Divinity School with a joint appointment as Professor of African and African American Studies in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University.
Jacob K. Olupona is a scholar of indigenous African religions who came to Harvard after serving as a professor at the University of California, Davis.
He is working on a study of the religious practices of the estimated one million Africans who have emigrated to the United States over the last 40 years, examining in particular several populations that remain relatively invisible in the American religious landscape: "reverse missionaries" who have come to the U.S. to establish churches, African Pentecostals in American congregations, American branches of independent African churches, and indigenous African religious communities in the U.S. His earlier research includes African spirituality and ritual practices, spirit possession, Pentecostalism, Yoruba festivals, animal symbolism, icons, phenomenology, and religious pluralism in Africa and the Americas.
In his forthcoming book Ile-Ife: The City of 201 Gods, he examines the modern urban mixing of ritual, royalty, gender, class, and power, and how the structure, content, and meaning of religious beliefs and practices permeate daily life.
He has authored or edited seven other books, including Kingship, Religion and Rituals in a Nigerian Community: A Phenomenological Study of Ondo Yoruba Festivals, which has beern used for ethnographic research among Yoruba-speaking communities.
Olupona has received grants from the Guggenheim Foundation, the American Philosophical Society, the Ford Foundation, the Davis Humanities Institute, the Rockefeller Foundation, the Wenner-Gren Foundation, and the Getty Foundation.
He has served on the editorial boards of three journals and as president of the African Association for the Study of Religion.
In 2000, Olupona received an honorary doctorate in divinity from the University of Edinburgh in Scotland.
Jacob K. Olupona received his BA from the University of Nigeria and his MA and PhD from Boston University.
St. Priapus Church ( ), also known as Temple of Priapus, is a North American pagan religion founded in the 1980s that centres on the worship of the phallus.
St. Priapus Church was founded in Montreal, Quebec, by D. F. Cassidy and has found a following mainly among homosexual men in Canada and the United States.
The church, which is named after the Greek god Priapus, teaches that the phallus is the source of life, beauty, joy, and pleasure.
The phallus is to be worshipped, which can be accomplished by a variety of sexual acts, including group masturbation.
Semen is also treated with reverence and its consumption is an act of worship.
Similarly, fellatio is strongly encouraged; St. Priapus Church sees it as a mitzvah, a good deed which has positive effects not just for the recipient but for society in general, a practice facilitating world peace.
(Well-fellated men, the church teaches, are less likely to make war.)
Images of the phallus are personified as deities, particularly Priapus, and Pan which are revered in religious practices.
The religious practices are a mixture between pagan phallus worship as well as the structure of a Mass.
During the services, the congregation is naked with the exception of the priest.
Phallic statues and candles are incorporated in the worship as well as phallic-centered prayers.
Along with group masturbation, group sex also may take place.
The church also serves as a non-profit charity and food dispensary for people suffering from HIV and AIDS.
Although the membership of the church is primarily gay, with some presence of non-gay men who have sex with men, it is not officially gay and does not exclude non-gays.
Similarly, while members of the church are overwhelmingly male, there is no rejection or exclusion of women; any woman who wishes to worship the phallus and its semen is welcome, and there have been occasional female participants.
The Scripture of the Holy Seed, also informally called the Bible of Man Worship, is the official religious text of the church.
It is written in a similar way to that of the Judeo-Christian scriptures, with passages about a savior and sacrifice, but with erotic and sexual meanings.
There are nine centres of the church in Canada and eight in the United States.
The largest membership of the church resides in San Francisco, California, and it has its headquarters in Montreal.
Cult is literally the "care" (Latin cultus) owed to God or gods and to temples, shrines, or churches.
Cult is embodied in ritual and ceremony.
Its present or former presence is made concrete in temples, shrines and churches, and cult images, including cult images and votive deposits at votive sites.
In the specific context of Greek hero cult, Carla Antonaccio has written, "The term cult identifies a pattern of ritual behavior in connection with specific objects, within a framework of spatial and temporal coordinates.
Rituals would include (but not necessarily be limited to) prayer, sacrifice, votive offerings, competitions, processions and construction of monuments.
Some degree of recurrence in place and repetition over time of ritual action is necessary for a cult to be enacted, to be practiced".
Cicero defined religio as cultus deorum, "the cultivation of the gods."
The "cultivation" necessary to maintain a specific deity was that god's cultus, "cult," and required "the knowledge of giving the gods their due" (scientia colendorum deorum).
The noun cultus originates from the past participle of the verb colo, colere, colui, cultus, "to tend, take care of, cultivate," originally meaning "to dwell in, inhabit" and thus "to tend, cultivate land (ager); to practice agriculture," an activity fundamental to Roman identity even when Rome as a political center had become fully urbanized.
Cultus is often translated as "cult", without the negative connotations the word may have in English, or with the Anglo-Saxon word "worship", but it implies the necessity of active maintenance beyond passive adoration.
Cultus was expected to matter to the gods as a demonstration of respect, honor, and reverence; it was an aspect of the contractual nature of Roman religion (see do ut des).
St. Augustine echoes Cicero's formulation when he declares that "religio is nothing other than the cultus of God."
The term "cult" first appeared in English in 1617, derived from the French culte, meaning "worship" which in turn originated from the Latin word cultus meaning "care, cultivation, worship".
The meaning "devotion to a person or thing" is from 1829.
Starting about 1920, "cult" acquired an additional six or more positive and negative definitions.
In French, for example, sections in newspapers giving the schedule of worship at Catholic churches are headed Culte Catholique; the section giving the schedule of Protestant churches is headed culte réformé.
In Roman Catholicism, outward religious practice in cultus is the technical term for devotions or veneration extended to a particular saint, not to the worship of God.
Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy make a major distinction between latria, which is the worship that is offered to God alone, and Dulia, which is the veneration offered to the saints, including Mary, the mother of Jesus, whose veneration is often referred to as hyperdulia.
Outward religious practice in worship are rituals, ceremonies, liturgy or audits, which may involve spoken or sung words, and often involve personal sacrifice.
Other outward manifestations of the cult of a deity are the preservation of relics or the creation of images, such as icons (usually connoting a flat painted image) or three-dimensional cultic images, denigrated as "idols", and the specification of sacred places, hilltops and mountains, fissures and caves, springs, pools and groves, or even individual trees or stones, which may be the seat of an oracle or the venerated site of a vision, apparition, miracle or other occurrence commemorated or recreated in outward religious practice.
Sacred places may be identified and elaborated by construction of shrines, temples, and churches, on which are centered public attention at religious festivals and which may become the center for pilgrimages.
Didier Pollefeyt (Menen, November 18, 1965) is a Belgian catholic theologian, full professor at the Faculty of Theology and Religious Studies and vice rector for education policy at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven.
After gaining the degree of license in the Religious Studies (1988) and Theology (1991) Pollefeyt obtained his doctoral degree in Theology (promotor: prof. Roger Burggraeve) with a dissertation on ethics after Auschwitz (1995).
Thereafter he became instructor (2000), associate instructor (2002), associate professor (2005) and full professor (2008) at the Faculty of Theology, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven.
Since 1986 his research focuses on the holocaust as a challenge for ethics, interreligious dialogue and education.
The research activities of Didier Pollefeyt are situated around 5 areas.
model, in Narthex 7 (2007) nr.
Besides, Pollefeyt coordinates the Center for Teacher Education of the Faculty of Theology and Religious Studies at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven.
Since 2001 he is at the head of Thomas, a website for religious education.
Pollefeyt is vice rector for education policy at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven and chairman of the Center for Peace Ethics.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice, and prominent societal leaders took positive steps to promote religious freedom.
According to the 2002 census, 27.1 percent of the population is Roman Catholic, 24.4 percent Muslim, 17.3 percent Vodun, 5 percent Celestial Christian, 3.2 percent Methodist, 7.5 percent other Christian, 6 percent other traditional local religious groups, 1.9 percent other religious groups, and 6.5 percent claim no religious affiliation.
Foreign missionary groups operate freely in the country.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
The Government at all levels sought to protect this right in full and did not tolerate its abuse, either by governmental or private actors.
There is no state-sponsored religion.
The Constitutional Court determines the legal guidelines that govern religious practice.
In recent years this court determined that it is illegal to block the access of any group to its religious services and that criticism of religious belief is a protected free speech right.
The Defense Ministry is permitted to intervene in conflicts between religious groups as a peacekeeping force to ensure public order and social peace, provided that the intervention complies with the principle of state neutrality in the management of religious affairs.
Persons who wish to form a religious group must register with the Ministry of the Interior.
Registration requirements are the same for all religious groups, and there were no reports that any group was refused permission to register or subjected to unusual delays or obstacles in the registration process.
Religious groups are free from taxation.
Government officials accorded respect to prominent leaders of all religious groups by attending their induction ceremonies, funerals, and other religious celebrations.
The President regularly received leaders of all religious groups, and police forces were assigned to provide security to any religious event upon request.
In accordance with article 2 of the Constitution, which provides for a secular state, public schools are not authorized to provide religious instruction.
Religious groups are permitted to establish private schools.
National holidays include the Christian holy days of Easter Monday, Ascension Day, Whit Monday, Assumption Day, All Saints' Day, and Christmas; the Islamic holy days of Ramadan, Tabaski, and the Birth of the Prophet Muhammad; and the indigenous celebration of Traditional Religions holiday.
State-operated television featured coverage of the celebration of religious holidays and special events in the lives of prominent religious leaders, including ordination anniversaries and funerals.
Soon after his inauguration, the President received leaders and representatives of Christian, Muslim, and traditional indigenous religious groups, respectively.
Ecumenical Day is celebrated every first Wednesday of May and traditionally includes a large celebration of interreligious cooperation in the historic town of Ouidah.
Individual religious leaders make an effort to bridge the divide between Christians and Muslims and preach a message of tolerance.
Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
There were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country.
There were no reports of forced religious conversion.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Due to the diversity of religious affiliations within families and communities, religious tolerance was widespread at all levels of society and in all regions.
Interfaith dialogue occurred regularly, and citizens respected different religious traditions and practices, including syncretistic beliefs.
Many Vodun followers were also Christian or Muslim and tolerant of other religious groups.
The Romanian Revolution of 1989, which ended the Communist regime of Nicolae Ceauşescu in December 1989, offered the 15 religious denominations then recognized in Romania the chance to regain the terrain lost after 1945, the year when Dr. Petru Groza of the Ploughmen's Front, a party closely associated with the Communists, became prime minister.
From that time, the Communist Party started a campaign of secularisation, seeking to transform the country into an atheistic state along Marxist-Leninist lines.
Shortly after 1945, religious education came under the scrutiny of communist authorities and the Securitate.
The Department of Religious Denominations, a governmental body dealing with religious matters since pre-communist times, continued to exist but was transformed into an agency enforcing stricter state control over religious affairs in the country.
Recently it was revealed that the Securitate included a special department supervising religious life that tried to solve the so-called problem of the denominations, especially religious groups and individuals hostile to the new regime.
After decades of officially-backed atheism, one of the first demands churches in that country put forth after December 1989 was the resumption of pre-university religious education in public schools.
In January 1990, less than a month after communist leader Ceauşescu was killed by a firing squad and well before post-communist authorities had time to revamp the education system, the new Secretary of State for Religious Denominations, Nicolae Stoicescu, together with the Romanian Orthodox Church’s collective leadership structure, the Holy Synod, pledged their support for the introduction of religious education in public schools at all pre-university levels.
An optional religion class, for which students were not to be graded, was to be included in the pre-university curriculum, with students declaring their religious affiliation in consultation with their parents.
Students who were atheist or non-religious had the opportunity to opt out of the classes.
One change has been the reorganization of religious education, mainly in primary schools.
Romania officially has more than 86% Christian Orthodox believers.
Another 6% percent belong to the Catholic Church and 3% are Protestant churches.
Muslims and Jews constitute less than 1% and have also started to implement their religious education in schools.
In Romanian society, the number of people without any belief (unbaptized and not having been married in a religious setting) is very low, under 0.1%.
Nowadays, national polls show Romanian Orthodox Church to be one of the most trusted institutions in Romania.
At this moment there are over 10,000 qualified teachers in public schools and the number is not enough.
Their enthusiasm had provided a good assistance to people who were deprived by religious education for decades.
Despite a shortage of qualified teachers in religion, many priests and students in theology accomplished in a successful way.
The Romanian Orthodox Church has 37 high schools (seminaries) and, in higher education, 12 faculties of theology with over 9,400 undergraduate students specialized in Priesthood, School, Social Services and Sacred Arts.
Heidi A Campbell is an Associate Professor at the Department of Communication  and an Affiliate Faculty in the Religious Studies Interdisciplinary Program at Texas A&M University.
She studies religion and new media  and the influence of digital and mobile technologies on religious communities.
Her work has covered a range of topics from the rise of religious community online, religious blogging and religious mobile culture within Christianity, Judaism and Islam, to exploring technology practice and fandom as implicit religion and religious framings within in digital games.
Campbell received her Bachelor of Arts in Communication from Spring Arbor University in Michigan (1988-1992) and a Masters from the University of Edinburgh in Scotland (1996-1997) in the Theology and Ethics of Communication.
She also received her PhD from the University of Edinburgh (2002) where she studied the intersection of Computer-Mediated Communication and Practical Theology in her thesis entitled “Investigating Community Through an Analysis of Christian Email Online Communities”.
Campbell is a scholar of new media, religion and digital culture.
Her work has appeared in the Journal of the American Academy of Religion, New Media and Society, Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, Journal of Electronic Broadcasting and Media  and the Journal of Contemporary Religion.
She is the author of Exploring Religious Community Online: We are one in the network (Peter Lang, 2005) and When Religion Meets New Media (Routledge, 2010), and editor of Digital Religion: Understanding Religious Practice in New media Worlds (Routledge, 2013), and co-editor of A Science and Religion Primer (Baker Academic, 2009) and Playing with Religion in Digital Games (University of Indiana Press, 2014).
Campbell is also co-editor of Routledge’s Studies in Religion and Digital Culture book series and on the editorial boards of Ecclesial Practices,pf Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, pf New Media and Society and the Journal of Religion, Media and Culture.
She has held research fellowships with the Institute for Advanced Studies-Durham University (UK), Melbern G. Glasscock Center for Humanities Research-TAMU, Caesarea Rothschild Institute for Interdisciplinary Applications of Computer Science-University of Haifa (Israel)  and Institute for the Advanced Studies-University of Edinburgh (UK) and Wycliffe Hall-Oxford University (UK).
Campbell developed the Religious-Social Shaping of Technology (RSST) approach to assist scholars seeking to examine religious user communities negotiation processes related to media technologies.
This approach builds upon ideas drawn the social shaping of technology (SST), which sees technological change and user innovation as a social process.
RSST views the interrelationship between religious groups and new technologies as a dialectical process, in which the ethos and identity of a religious groups dictates expectations regarding members’ engagement with new media.
This approach was developed by Campbell in her book When Religion Meets New Media (Routlege 2010).
A key premise underlying the RSST is that religious communities typically do not reject new forms of technology outright, rather they undergo a sophisticated negotiation process based on their communal background and beliefs.
This informs their response to the various affordances offered by a given technology and potential impacts they perceive it may have on their community.
The RSST approach employs four layers of investigation: A researcher must first uncover aspects of the community’s history and tradition which inform their response to media.
Special attention should be given to how they define what constitutes community, authority and their relationship to textual media.
Next the core religious and social values of the community must be revealed and examined.
Values underlie key religious practices and determine a group’s identity and priorities, also become the basis that guides their response towards and beliefs about a given technology.
Identifying a community’s background and beliefs become a basis for understanding how and why they respond to various media in particular ways.
This leads to considering the process of acceptance, rejection and/or re-configuring.
If a technology runs counter to their values and priorities they must make choices regarding what aspects of the technology they can accept, need to reject and to what extent its use or design needs to be innovated in order for it to fit into the moral economy of the community.
Finally it becomes important to pay attention not only to how communities use but also talk about media.
This layer focuses on analyzing the ways in which community members and leaders talk about new media through official policy statements, religious materials, sermons and in interviews.
Studying technology talk reveals important identity narratives about the community and how they seek to frame themselves in contemporary society.
The RSST approach to studies of new media has been applied to varied religious context including the Amish faith and tradition influence on their response to technology; The case of Ultra-Orthodox Jews use of the “Kosher” phone ; Religious Christian use of the Internet; Modern Islamic discourses about computers and Baha’í Negotiation with the Internet.
The study of the intersection between new media, religion and digital culture is often referred to as the study of “digital religion”.
Digital religion is defined as “Religion that is constituted in new ways through digital media and cultures… this recognizes that the reformulation of existing religious practices have both online and offline implications.
It also means digital culture negotiates our understandings of religious practice in ways that can lead to new experiences, authenticity and spiritual reflexivity” (Campbell, 2013, p.&nbsp;3).
Digital religion research has become an emerging sub-field within Internet Studies, and display interest not only in the performance of religion online, but also in how religious communities interact with media and negotiate their online and the offline existence.
The initial research of digital religion focused on describing and documenting online communities.
Throughout the years this sub-field has evolved to investigate online worship spaces and offline institutions and use and response to online environments.
The current approaches to digital religion studies focuses on the integration of online-offline use of social media and mobile media.
As an effort to create an international interdisciplinary conversation related Digital religion research, The Network for New Media, Religion and Digital Culture Studies  was established.
The project was established in 2010 through a grant from the Evans/Glasscock Digital Humanities Project, at Texas A&M University and brought to fruition with the assistance of TAMU's Initiative for Digital Humanities, Media, and Culture  Campbell serves as the project Director.
The Network for New Media, Religion and Digital Culture Studies brings together scholars from not only religious studies, theology and sociology of religion, but those in fields such as area studies, media studies, political science, and psychology.
The Network serves as the leading repository and connection point for scholars, students and independent researchers studying the intersection between new media, religion and digital culture.
It provides access to an interactive online bibliography of research works, profiles of scholars actively working in this area, blog reviews of recent published scholarship and an up-to-date list of news items and events related to the study of Digital Religion.
The Constitution of Burundi provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice.
Government policy contributes to the generally free practice of religion.
In a 2007 US Government study, there were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice .
The country has an area of and a population of 8,390,500.
Although reliable statistics on the followers of various religious groups are not available, sources estimate the Christian population to be 67 percent, with Roman Catholics representing the largest group at 62 percent.
Protestant and Anglican practitioners comprise the remaining 5 percent.
The local representative of the Holy See estimates the Catholic population to be closer to 65 percent.
An estimated 23 percent of the population adheres to traditional indigenous religious beliefs; some of the traditional indigenous groups promoted cures for HIV, AIDS and other ailments.
The Muslim population is estimated to be as high as 10 percent, the majority of whom live in urban areas.
Sunnis make up the majority of the Muslim population, and the remainder is Shi'a.
Foreign missionary groups are active in the country.
The Constitution, promulgated in March 2005, provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
The Government at all levels sought to protect this right in full and did not tolerate its abuse, either by governmental or private actors.
Discrimination on the basis of religious conviction is prohibited.
A 1992 law covering nonprofit organizations, including religious groups, is the basis for the recognition and registration of religious bodies.
There is no state religion.
The Government requires religious groups to register with the Ministry of the Interior.
Each association with a religious nature must file the following with the ministry: the denomination or affiliation of the religious institution, a copy of its statutes, the address of its headquarters in the country, an address abroad if the local religious institution is a subsidiary, and information about the association's governing body and legal representative.
If an association with a religious nature fails to register with the Ministry, its representative is reminded of the requirement to do so.
If the representative does not comply, the place of worship or association is instructed to close down.
Although the representative of the religious institution or association can be jailed for 6 months to 5 years for failing to comply with these instructions, during the reporting period no representative received this penalty.
The Government requires that all religious groups maintain a headquarters in the country.
While there is no law that accords tax exemptions to religious groups, the Government often waives taxes on imported religious articles used by religious institutions and on the importation by religious institutions of goods destined for social development purposes.
The Finance Ministry negotiates these exemptions on a case-by-case basis, and there is no indication of religious bias in the awarding of such exemptions.
The heads of major religious organizations are accorded diplomatic status.
Foreign missionary groups openly promote their religious beliefs.
The Government has welcomed their development assistance.
The Government recognizes Catholic holy days, including the Assumption, the Ascension, All Saints' Day, and Christmas.
In 2005 the Government also officially recognized the Islamic holy days of Eid al-Fitr, commemorating the end of Ramadan, and Eid al-Adha, which is celebrated at the end of the Hajj.
Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
There were no known abuses of religious freedom by the Government during the period covered by this report.
In the past, the Party for the Liberation of the Hutu People-National Liberation Force (PALIPEHUTU-FNL) was considered responsible for the killings of religious adherents, including five civilians attending a religious service in Bujumbura Rural Province in June 2005 and Catholic priest Gerard Nzeyimana in Makamba Province in October 2004.
No one has been charged in these killings.
There were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country.
There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
A Crypto-pagan is a pagan who maintains the pretense of adherence to a non-pagan (i.e.
Abrahamic) religion while continuing to observe their own religious practices in private.
The term stems from the Greek word , meaning 'hidden' or 'secret'.
This may be in response to a perceived danger of rejection by society, or of formalised persecution by an established religious orthodoxy.
In an article entitled The Corpus Areopagiticum as a Crypto-Pagan Project, Tuomo Lankila of the Universities of Helsinki and Jyväskylä argues that the Corpus Areopagiticum, an ostensibly Christian text attributed to Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite was in fact written by Damascius, the last head of the pagan Neoplatonist school of Athens.
The article suggests that the work was written "in order to resurrect more easily the polytheistic religion in better times".
In modern society, particularly in regions of strong conservative religious belief, contemporary pagans will sometimes also seek to present the impression of conformity to the mainstream in order to mitigate the risk of ostracism or persecution.
In Wicca, as presented by Gerald Gardner, traditional laws instruct practitioners to conceal their practices and religious paraphernalia by using innocuous substitutes which could easily be explained away in case of discovery: <blockquote>"To void discovery, let the working tools be as ordinary things that any may have in their houses.
Let the Pentacles be of wax, so they may be broken at once.
Have no sword unless your rank allows you one.
Have no names or signs on anything.
Write the names and signs on them in ink before consecrating them and wash it off immediately after.
Do not Bigrave them, lest they cause discovery.
Let the colour of the hilts tell which is which.
Ever remember, ye are the Hidden Children of the Gods.
"< Among modern guides, City Magick, an urban pagan's manual published in 2001, gives examples of how to hide a pagan altar at your home or at work, using items such as letter openers, paper weights, and coffee cups and relaxation candles in the place of the traditional sword, stone, goblet and candle.
The is a collection of legislation known as a capitulary issued by Charlemagne in 789, which covers educational and ecclesiastical reform within the Frankish kingdom.
Capitularies were used in the Frankish kingdom during the Carolingian dynasty by government and administration bodies and covered a variety of topics, sorted into chapters.
is actually just one of many Charlemagne's capitularies that outlined his desire for a well-governed, disciplined Christian Frankish kingdom.
The reforms issued in these capitularies by Charlemagne during the late 8th century reflect the cultural revival known as the Carolingian Renaissance.
Charlemagne (742–814) ruled from 771 until his death, and the Frankish kingdom experienced a period of stability during his reign.
This was arguably because of his strict and efficient moral and judicial reform and governance, enforced with capitularies like .
Indeed, was just one step in Charlemagne's goal of Christian institutions, political structures, and subjects within his Frankish kingdom, and it would be continually adapted and reinforced to meet his objectives.
When Charlemagne came to power, he had two goals; territorial expansion and the conversion of all Franks to Christianity, including those recently added to the kingdom.
Charlemagne's desire to extend his empire was inseparable from his desire to extend Christianity, so the conquering of other kingdoms was a method often used.
This Frank expansion into other realms and their contrast with those people and their religions, for example the arrival of Islam in Spain, has to be considered when considering legal and religious reforms such as and the fever in which they were carried out.
Charlemagne was the champion of orthodoxy, and to address his perceived failings of the church and the moral and spiritual health of the Franks, he set out to reform the church and his subjects with the capitulary .
In the , Charlemagne pronounced that he was a "new Josiah", and responsible for the moral health and salvation of his subjects, highlighting Charlemagne's commitment to the Christianization of the Frankish kingdom.
He sought to achieve this by reforming the church in pursuit of the moral reform and discipline of the clergy and other ecclesiastical members with the expectation they would lead their followers by example.
He also pursued educational reform, requiring monasteries and cathedrals to establish schools to educate boys to read and write in order to make the Bible and other religious texts more accessible and in turn broadening and deepening the spread Christianity.
The schools would also teach religious music, singing and psalms to encourage the spread of the faith, as well as grammar so religious texts could be revised and edited.
To achieve these goals Charlemagne consulted with clerical advisors and rulings from earlier council decisions such as the Dionysio-Hadriana collection of canon law to draw up the 82 chapters of the  with particular rulings on the expected behavior, responsibilities, and compliance of the clergy and monks, including the establishment of schools, content of sermons, and an honest weight and measurement system.
Charlemagne also championed the use of Roman liturgy, and ordained the memorization and use of Roman chants in the .
Capitularies were sent to , or officials supervising the administration of different parts of the Frankish kingdom, for their local enforcement.
The were to represent and watch out for the king's royal interests, and report back to him.
The would compile books from parts of different capitularies and other laws and religious texts indicating what was important to them and what they found useful in governing their districts.
The wide distribution and acceptance of is traceable by the large number of surviving manuscripts from the books of the that include parts of , found across the entire Frankish kingdom, showing up as early as the late 8th century.
The reception and implementation of is also tangible by examining the effect it had on the Carolingian Renaissance, with Charlemagne's edicts of moral reform spurring on the resurgence of the education of the arts.
Charlemagne's early capitularies such as were the foundation for the Carolingian Renaissance, establishing his religious and educational aspirations for the kingdom.
Charlemagne's most significant contribution to the Carolingian Renaissance was the revival of learning, especially among the clergy, most of whom were barely literate.
Before the surge of education following the and subsequent Carolingian Renaissance, it was difficult for the Frankish people to connect with Christianity and the church.
Peasant life was very hard; the people were illiterate and Latin, the language of the church, was not their native language, making Christianity and the Bible difficult to access.
Nobles also were largely uneducated and uncultured, with few devoted Christians among them.
Only the clergy were consistent in having some level of education, and thus they had the best understanding and exposure to the Bible and the full extent of Christianity.
The schools, which the Admonitio ordered established by the monasteries and cathedrals, began a tradition of higher learning in Carolingian Europe, leading the revival known as the Carolingian Renaissance.
The fulfillment of meant that the study of language, rhetoric and grammar in these institutions, as well as the standardizing of writing scripture and Latin, was undertaken in order to make religious texts and books accessible to the clergy, as well as their correction and standardization.
However this strengthened all forms of Carolingian literature, and book production, as well as developments in law, historical writing, and uses of poetry all flourished in these schools.
In fact, the capitularies themselves, and the level of language they use, are examples of the increasing importance of writing within the Frankish kingdom.
As well as language, the ordered other arts such as numbers and arithmetic, ratios, taxes, measure, architecture, geometry, and astrology to be taught, leading to developments in each field and their application within society.
Charlemagne pushed for an educated clergy who could help lead reform, because it was his belief that the study of arts would aid them in understanding sacred texts, which they could then pass on to their followers.
During the Carolingian Renaissance, Charlemagne unified religious practices and culture within his realm, creating a Christian kingdom, and ultimately unifying his empire.
The Workplace Religious Freedom Act (WRFA) is a proposed amendment to title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which would limit employers' discretion to decline to accommodate the religious practices of their employees or prospective employees.
WRFA would amend that part of title VII which is codified at 42 U.S.C.
2000e(j).
In its current form (as of 2013), 42 U.S.C.
2000e(j) forbids discrimination on the basis of religion, including "all aspects of religious observance and practice, as well as belief, unless an employer demonstrates that he is unable to reasonably accommodate to an employee's or prospective employee's religious observance or practice without undue hardship on the conduct of the employer's business."
The 2013 version of WRFA would delete the phrase "he is unable," and substitute for it: "the employer is unable, after initiating and engaging in an affirmative and bona fide effort."
In other words, an employer would be required to make a "bona fide effort" to accommodate each religious practice or observance, and would be relieved of this duty only if the employer could prove that the effort resulted in "undue hardship."
WRFA would also add an additional provision, to be codified at 42 U.S.C.
2000e(j)(2), further limiting employers' ability to deny accommodations with respect to "the practice of wearing religious clothing or a religious hairstyle, or of taking time off for a religious reason."
In such cases, the employer's proposed choice of accommodation would not be considered reasonable (or lawful) "unless the accommodation removes the conflict between employment requirements and the religious practice of the employee."
In order to refuse accommodation to these categories of religious practices, an employer would be required to meet a stringent definition of undue hardship by showing that "the accommodation imposes a significant difficulty or expense on the conduct of the employer's business."
With these provisions, WRFA expressly attempts to supersede the Supreme Court's decision in Trans World Airlines, Inc. v. Hardison, 432 U.S. 63 (1977) (see Section 2, "Findings," para.
In that case, the Supreme Court held that an employer could deny an employee’s request for religious accommodation based on any burden greater than a de minimis burden on the employer.
WRFA was first introduced in the House of Representatives in 1994 by Jerrold Nadler (D-NY).
As originally introduced, the proposed 42 U.S.C.
2000e(j)(2) would not have been limited to religious clothing, hairstyle and holiday observances.
The bill was introduced in the Senate in 1999, by Senator John Kerry (D-MA), and again in 2002.
Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) introduced the bill again in 2003.
In 2005, WFRA was once again introduced in the Senate by Senators Santorum and Kerry, and in the House of Representatives by Representatives Mark Souder (R-IN), Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY), Bobby Jindal (R-LA), and Anthony Weiner (D-NY).
Other supporters of the bill included Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) and Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA).
The bill did not pass either house.
In 2010, the Act was reintroduced in the Senate as the Workplace Religious Freedom Act of 2010 (S. 4046).
In 2012, the Act was again reintroduced in the Senate as the Workplace Religious Freedom Act of 2013 (S. 3686).
In each case, the Act's sponsor was Senator John Kerry (D-MA).
In its various incarnations, the scope of WRFA was narrowed to encompass religious dress, grooming, and holidays.
Although WRFA has consistently had supporters in both parties, it has yet to pass.
This legislation has garnered the diverse support of various religious groups including, the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations, the Southern Baptist Convention, the National Council of Churches, the North American Council for Muslim Women, the Sikh American Legal Defense and Education Fund, the Seventh-day Adventist Church, the Jewish Council for Public Affairs ,the Council on American Islamic Relations, B'nai B'rith International, the American Jewish Committee, Agudath Israel of America, the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops and other groups.
When first introduced, WRFA was opposed by the ACLU.
The ACLU considered the bill "poorly-written" and argued that it could legalize certain acts of discrimination in the name of religion.
The ACLU was also concerned that other employees might be forced to carry additional workloads to accommodate the religious practices of co-workers, and that the secular nature of the workplace would be eroded.
They and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and several other business organizations opposed it as placing undue legal burdens on employers.
When the scope of the provision which would create 42 U.S.C.
2000e(j)(2) was narrowed, supporters of the bill claimed that the ACLU dropped its opposition, although the ACLU itself declined comment.
Michael J. Eastman, executive director of labor law policy for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said of the revised bill, "We are not in the habit of supporting bills that make it easier to sue our members."
ACLU of N.C. & Syidah Mateen v. State of North Carolina is a court case in the state of North Carolina within the United States of America.
One of the main plaintiffs is Syidah Mateen an American-Muslim of Greensboro, North Carolina.
She and the North Carolina chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union are calling for the state courts of North Carolina to rule that it is acceptable under the laws of the state for non-Christians to swear on religious texts of their own faith rather than the Bible of Christianity.
In 2003 Syidah Mateen (a computer analyst for radiology clinics, born in 1964) was a witness set to testify in a domestic violence protective order hearing, before Guilford District Judge Tom Jarrell.
When asked to swear on a King James Version of the Bible, Mateen a lifelong Muslim asked "Do you have a Qur'an available?"
Matten recalled later that she "was actually shocked that they didn't have any."
North Carolina's state law "allows witnesses preparing to testify in court to take their oath in three ways: by laying a hand over 'the Holy Scriptures,' by saying 'so help me God' without the use of a religious book, or by an affirmation using no religious symbols."
When told that there was no Qur'an in the courthouse Mateen's testimony was allowed after she agreed to affirm that she would be truthful.
While Mateen claims that Judge Jarrell told her that "all the courtrooms needed copies of the Quran", Jarrell maintains he told her only that "he would look into the legality of such oaths if she wanted to bring a Quran in the future."
Mateen's parents had converted to Islam in the early 1960s while living in Flint, Michigan.
After moving to North Carolina, her father, L'Fatihah Mateen, established the Al-Ummil Ummat Islamic Center in Greensboro and served as its prayer leader (he died in 1997).
In 2005 Syidah Mateen, not realizing that the lack of a Qur'an for oaths at the courthouse might be mandated by law, joined with other Muslim-American's at the Al-Ummil Ummat Islamic Center "to donate copies of the Qur'an to Guilford County's two courthouses."
The Center's imam, Charles Abdullah "working through a judicial assistant, was prepared to hand over the Qurans", but two Guilford judges declined to accept the texts, saying "an oath on the Qur'an is not a legal oath under state law."
In Raleigh, the lawyer for North Carolina’s Administrative Office of the Courts (AOC) issued a preliminary opinion that said “that state law allows people to be sworn in using a Quran rather than a Bible”.
This was refuted by Guilford County's Senior Resident Superior Court Judge W. Douglas Albright who sets policy for the county's nine Superior Court courtrooms.
Judge Albright stated flatly “An oath on the Quran is not a lawful oath under our law.” He maintained that the statute means the Bible and that if that is to be changed it is up to the North Carolina Legislature, "It's gotten way out there: They've got everything from the Book of Mormon to the Book of Wicca on the list.
Our position is that the statute governs not only the type of oath, but the manner and administration of the oath, and that it's now a legislative matter to straighten out."
Guilford Chief District Judge Joseph E. Turner "told [Imam] Abdullah that he could not accept the Qurans for the courtrooms."
After the Judges' statements the AOC's spokesman Dick Ellis said "We are not aware of any courtroom that has ever allowed anybody to swear on anything but the Bible."
Judge Jarrell the presiding officer in the case where Mateen testified did not make any comment but "deferred any decision to the judges that set courtroom policy".
Judge Turner did ask Imam Abdullah to "donate a copy of the Quran to the law libraries in the county's two courthouses" which the imam did.
In an interview with reporters on the matter Mateen stated "This is a diverse world, and everybody does not worship or believe the same.
We'll just have to get in touch with the right people and determine our next move."
It was added that Mateen "worries that people might consider her testimony less credible if they see her unwilling to swear on a holy text."
North Carolina's oath-taking practices "date to 1777 but have evolved over the years."
North Carolina's legislature first passed the oath-taking statutes in 1777.
At that time, the title of the statute was 'Administration of oath upon the Gospels.'
In 1985 the word "Gospels" was replaced by the term "Holy Scriptures".
Currently the North Carolina General statute on oath taking (§11-2) states: (emphasis added) “Judges and other persons who may be empowered to administer oaths, shall (except in the cases in this Chapter excepted) require the party to be sworn to lay his hand upon the Holy Scriptures, in token of his engagement to speak the truth and in further token that, if he should swerve from the truth, he may be justly deprived of all the blessings of the holy book and made liable to that vengeance which he has imprecated on his own head.” Prior to 1985 amendments to N.C.G.S.
§ 11-2, the statutory section read that Judges shall “require the party sworn to lay his hand upon the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God”.
When it was announced that the Qur'an was not to be allowed for swearing before testimony, the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) issued a press statement, “By stating that only one book qualifies as ‘Holy Scriptures,' the court may be making an inappropriate endorsement of a single set of religious beliefs.
Eliminating the opportunity to swear an oath on one's own holy text may also have the effect of diminishing the credibility of that person's testimony.” CAIR's Legal Director Arsalan Iftikhar said "CAIR will offer a free copy of the Quran to any judge in North Carolina or throughout the United States for use in oaths or for personal awareness of the holy text."
CAIR's Legal Director in Washington D.C, Arsalan Iftikhar, said of the case, "This shows there's a lot of anti-Muslim sentiment, especially here in the United States."
On July 6, 2005 a group of more than 20 religious leaders from the Guilford County area, “including those of Christian, Jewish and Buddhist faiths” sent a letter to Superior Court Judge W. Douglas Albright, who said an oath on the Quran is not lawful.
The letter noted that “North Carolina is an increasingly diverse place and says that religious differences need to be respected.” It went on to say “In North Carolina, we continue to be people who take our religious beliefs and practices very seriously.
But we no longer live in the Bible Belt.
Today, we live in the Bible-Talmud-Qur'an-Veda-Dhammapada-Guru Granth Sahib-Kitabi Iqan Belt.
It is imperative for our civic leaders, school teachers, judges, and law enforcers to appreciate and respect the religious differences found in our population.” The executive director of FaithAction (an interfaith organization) Rev.
Mark Sills, signed the letter and said that the Qur'an oath case "struck us as an issue that needs to be confronted."
He asked Christians to imagine what it would be like to live in a place where the Bible was not allowed for oaths, saying "That just feels like a slap in the face."
Rev.
Julie Peeples, pastor of Greensboro's Congregational United Church of Christ signed the letter and said "I think it's an opportunity to foster greater respect for all the traditions we have in Greensboro."
The superintendent of the Greensboro District of the United Methodist Church, Rev.
Frank Stith, said “it makes sense for people to be able to use a book that means something to them,” explaining “The point is to have something that stands behind someone's word.” The North Carolina chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union became involved when on On June 28, 2005 they called on the AOC to "adopt a policy allowing the use of the Quran and other religious texts for the swearing of oaths in court proceedings."
When on July 14, 2005 the state Administrative Office of the Courts declined to intervene (indicating "that either the legislature or a court ruling would have to decide this question") the ACLU took the issue to court”.
In July 2005 they argued in court that "the term 'Holy Scriptures' appearing in the statute refers not only to the Christian Bible, but also to other religious texts including, but not limited to, the Quran, the Old Testament, and the Bhagavad-Gita."
The ACLU argued that since in 1985 “the term ‘Gospels’ was eliminated from the section [on oaths] and the terms ‘Holy Evangelists of Almighty God’ was changed to ‘Holy Scriptures,’ the message sent by the Legislature was clear: no longer would the Christian Bible be the only religious text which could be used in a swearing ceremony.
Stated differently, the term ‘Holy Scriptures’ is broad enough to include the Quran.” The state attorney general's office argued in court papers that the ACLU lacked the right to sue because there is no controversy between them and the state of North Carolina.
This led them to add Muslim Syidah Mateen as a plaintiff on November 29, 2005.
Steve Noble, of Called2Action a Christian advocacy group headquartered in Raleigh, North Carolina held that the option to affirm and not use the Bible should be sufficient, telling reporters “Since you don't have to swear on the Bible, what's the problem?
Given the fact that it's a Judeo-Christian nation, when we say Holy Scriptures we mean the Bible.” Michele Combs, communications director of the Christian Coalition said "We don't have a state-run religion in this country and it's an honor to worship here, but some traditions that we've had for 200 years need to stay."
Erik Stanley, a lawyer for the Christian law group Liberty Counsel claimed the suit “was not simply intended to include other faiths.” He went on to say “The ACLU is not attempting to bring accommodation.
They're trying to erase history.
Courtroom oaths have always been done on the Bible.” On Dec. 5, 2005 Superior Court Judge Donald L. Smith (serving as an emergency judge) heard arguments on the case in a hearing that lasted less than a half hour.
Lawyers on both sides were given seven and one-half minutes to make their case and no witnesses were heard.
Assistant Attorney General Grady L. Balentine Jr. argued “that state oath-taking law is constitutional because it allows people to affirm if they don't wish to swear on the Christian Bible.
No one is required to do that, that's our only position in this case.” The ACLU’s attorney Seth Cohen argued that if "Holy Scriptures" is interpreted to not include non-Christian texts, then the law is unconstitutional, as “the exclusive use of the Christian Bible for courtroom oaths violates the First Amendment's Establishment Clause in the U.S. Constitution.” Both lawyers answered one of the Judge’s questions by agreeing to “a longstanding legal tradition: When a law is susceptible to multiple interpretations, a judge should always rely on the interpretation that makes the law constitutional.” In his ruling Judge Smith dismissed Mateen's case, in part "because Mateen was able to testify that day, no legal controversy remained."
Judge Smith "did not address whether state law allows people to use non-Christian texts for oath-taking, the main issue the ACLU wanted resolved."
The executive director of the North Carolina chapter of the ACLU, Jennifer Rudinger, said “it would be very difficult for a person wishing to swear on a non-Christian text to halt a courtroom proceeding to pursue a legal challenge on the issue.” Mateen said “Had I known that it would be taken to this point, I wouldn't have affirmed.
I could have postponed everything until they got some Qurans.” The ACLU was also surprised that Judge Smith cited “lack of an actual controversy” as a reason for dismissal because Grady Balentine the lawyer for the state attorney general's office did not make that argument.
Balentine had only argued “that the law gives people another option if they don't wish to swear on the Christian Bible.” On Dec. 15, 2005, a week after Smith’s ruling, the N.C. chapter of the ACLU announced they would appeal the decision.
Their lawyer Seth Cohen told reporters “that the organization disagrees with the judge's finding” and that he was “confidant they will win in the N.C. Court of Appeals.” Cohen went on to say “It's a shame that this matter cannot be resolved sooner.
All we have ever asked is that people of all faiths be able to put their hands on the holy text of their choice.
We don't understand why this is such a big deal.” Cohen also said that members of Judaism have thrown their support behind the case as they would like to be able to swear on the Tanakh, and that this joining over the issue was one of the things “that's gotten lost in this case.” On Jan. 16, 2007 a three-judge panel of the North Carolina Court of Appeals ruled unanimously to reverse the trial court decision that had dismissed the case.
The appeals court found that the issue was not moot.
The Court's ruling also mentioned it received "affidavits from eight Jewish members of ACLU-NC who were residents of Guilford County and eligible for jury duty, stating they would prefer to swear on the Hebrew Bible rather than the Christian Bible if selected as jurors or asked to testify in court."
The Court reviewed the history of the case noting that "When Ms. Mateen appeared as a witness, she requested that her oath to tell the truth be sworn on the holy text of her religious faith, the Quran.
When her request was denied and because she would not swear on the Christian Bible, her options were to affirm without the use of a religious text or be denied the opportunity to testify.
…Ms.
Mateen chose to affirm to tell the truth, and she now seeks a declaratory judgment determining whether, under N.C.G.S.
§ 11-2, she has the right to swear on her holy text, the Quran."
The Court held that the case should go forward, because without a court decision on the matter a conflict was unavoidable, saying "Under these circumstances, Ms. Mateen clearly demonstrated her intent to avail herself of her asserted right to swear on her religious text and her intent to litigate that right.
The State has clearly demonstrated, by its refusal to permit witnesses to swear on any text other than the Christian Bible, its intent to continue the course of action; thus, its actions are not speculative [which would not merit allowing the case to go forward].
… ACLU-NC argues that it is not a matter of ‘if’ one of its [8,000] members who would prefer to swear on a different religious text will be called to serve as a juror or witness, but rather it is a matter of ‘when.’ The court stressed that it was only calling for the case to go forward, and was not itself judging the cases merits, saying "The sole issue presented by this appeal is whether either plaintiff has presented a justiciable controversy in their complaint.
We conclude the complaint is sufficient to entitle both plaintiffs to litigate their claims under the Declaratory Judgment Act, though we are careful to express no opinion on the merits of those claims."
Seth Cohen, General Counsel for the N.C. ACLU stated “We are very happy with the Court of Appeals’ decision today.
This is an important issue that affects thousands of people of faith across North Carolina who are not of the Christian faith, and we look forward to a hearing on the Constitutional questions raised by this case.” Mateen repeated her position in an interview after the Appeals Court allowed the case to go forward, saying she always "felt like, in this day and time, that they would at least have the three major religious texts in the courtroom.
If it was a Quran in the courtroom and a Christian was in there, would they want to testify on a holy Quran?"
The ACLU reports on its website that "The state Attorney General has 30 days [from the Jan. 16, 2007 ruling] to decide whether to seek discretionary review by the North Carolina Supreme Court.
If the North Carolina Supreme Court does not review the ruling by the Court of Appeals, then the case will go back to the superior court for a review of the Constitutional challenge to the statute."
Noelle Talley spokeswoman for the state Attorney General confirmed that the office is “reviewing the ruling but hasn't decided about an appeal.” On May 24, 2007, Superior Court Judge Paul Ridgeway ruled that people of non-Christian faiths must be allowed to use religious texts other than the Christian Bible when being sworn in as jurors or witnesses in state court proceedings.
Though the state had 30 days to decide to appeal the ruling, it took no action.
Some have seen this matter "as the latest case of religious liberty to arise in North Carolina.
In other cases, employers have been challenged to allow Sikhs to keep their beards and Muslim women to wear veils."
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill's Professor of Religion, Thomas Tweed said "This North Carolina case is another example of the ways America's expanding religious diversity is coming into conflict with established practices in the public arena."
New York University law professor Noah Feldman said "This case is a cousin to the Ten Commandments case in Alabama, where a judge does something that's pretty obviously unconstitutional, with a goal of sending a message ... that he's for fundamental religious values."
The Christian Science Monitor noted that in contrast to Judge Albright most American judges in recent history “have apparently given other oaths wide latitude.
In a federal terrorism case in 1997 in Washington D.C., for instance, the judge allowed Muslim witnesses to swear to Allah.
And the practice isn't new: Mochitsura Hashimoto, the Japanese submarine commander who testified in the court martial of a US Navy captain in 1945, was allowed by a military tribunal to swear on his beliefs of Shinto, the ancient religion of Japan.” The Christian Science Monitor also quoted Manish Vij, a New York blogger for Sepia Mutiny who said, “The only thing more compelling [to] ... South Asian Muslims is to literally swear upon your mother's head, and mothers aren't as convenient to drag around in court as a copy of the Koran.” Many media accounts  have linked this story with Qur'an oath controversy of the 110th United States Congress that involved Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) the first American-Muslim elected to the US Congress.
Ellison's desire to use a Qur'an at the ceremonial reenactment of his oath while symbolically important, was never a judicial issue.
The swearing-in was en masse and involved no texts whatsoever.
Both of the main figures taking issue with Ellison, Dennis Prager and Rep. Virgil Goode (R-VA), made sure to clarify that they were not asking for him to be banned from serving if he insisted on using a Qur'an instead of a Bible at his reenactment photo-op.
In this regard the Matten case is far more significant.
One commentator laid out the likely outcome should the Matteen case not be judged on its merits, saying one day a non-Christian would appear before a North Carolina judge and would "create an impasse in court when he refuses to swear on the Bible and declines to affirm an oath, insisting he should be allowed to place his hand on the Quran or some other holy book and promise before his God to tell the truth."
The judge could then "hold the uncooperative witness in contempt, in effect punishing a person who simply asks that his religious beliefs be granted the same respect as those of a Christian.
...[and] While holding the witness in contempt, the judge also could bar the testimony that would have been offered—thereby jeopardizing the case of one party or the other.
...Or the judge could let the witness testify without swearing or affirming to tell the truth.
But that would invite a challenge to the validity of the testimony—another legal controversy."
Christianity is the most widely professed religion in Benin, with 42.8% of the nation's total population being member of various Christian denominations.
According to the 2002 census, the population of Benin is 27.1% Catholic, 24.4% Muslim, 17.3% Vodoun, 10.4% Protestant (which includes Celestial 5%, Methodist 3.2%, and other Protestant 2.2%), 5.3% are of other Christian denominations, 15.5% are of other religions.
There are Christians, Muslims, and adherents of African Traditional Religion throughout the country.
However, most adherents of the traditional Yoruba religious group are in the south, while other African Traditional Religion beliefs are followed in the north.
Muslims are represented most heavily in the north and southeast.
Christians are prevalent in the south, particularly in Cotonou, the economic capital.
It is not unusual for members of the same family to practice Christianity, Islam, African Traditional Religion, or a combination of all of these.
Among the most practiced African Traditional Religions in Benin is the Vodun system of belief which originated in this area of Africa.
Other African Traditional Religions are practiced in the Atakora (Atakora and Donga provinces) and Vodun and Orisha or Orisa veneration among the Yoruba and Tado peoples is prevalent in the center and south of the country.
The town of Ouidah on the central coast is the spiritual center of Beninese Vodun.
The Tado and the Yoruba Orisha pantheons correspond closely: Christianity first reached Benin in 1680, gaining more permanent footing in the 19th century.
English Methodists arrived in 1843, operating amongst the coastal Gun people.
More than half of all Christians in Benin are Roman Catholic.
The Catholic hierarchy in Benin consists of the Archdiocese of Cotonou (including the Dioceses of Abomey, Dassa-Zoumé, Lokossa, Porto Novo) and the Parakou (including the Dioceses of Djougou, Kandi, Natitingou, and N'Dali).
There are 440 priests and 900 men and women in religious orders.
Other Christian groups include Baptists, Methodists, Assemblies of God, Pentecostals, Seventh-day Adventists, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), Jehovah's Witnesses, Celestial Christians, Rosicrucians, the Unification Church.
Many nominal Christians also practice traditional local religious beliefs.
Islam accounts more than 24.4% of the country's population.
Islam was brought to Benin from the north by Hausa, and Songhai-Dendi traders.
Nearly all Muslims adhere to the Sunni branch of Islam.
The few Shi'a Muslims are primarily Middle Eastern expatriates.
Ahmadiyya Muslim Community is also present, who recently inaugurated a mosque in Benin, the Al Mahdi Mosque in 2006.
Many nominal Muslims also practice traditional local religious beliefs.
jpg|Mosque in Porto-Novo File:COLLECTIE TROPENMUSEUM Houten deurpaneel TMnr 4416-6.j jpg|Islamic art in Benin </gallery> Other religious groups in Benin include Eckankar and Baha'is.
The Constitution of Benin provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respects this right in practice.
The United States government recorded no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice during 2007, and prominent societal leaders have taken positive steps to promote religious freedom.
"Viruses of the Mind" is an essay by British evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins, first published in the book Dennett and His Critics: Demystifying Mind (1993).
Dawkins originally wrote the essay in 1991 and delivered it as a Voltaire Lecture on 6 November 1992 at the Conway Hall Humanist Centre.
The essay discusses how religion can be viewed as a meme, an idea previously expressed by Dawkins in The Selfish Gene (1976).
Dawkins analyzes the propagation of religious ideas and behaviors as a memetic virus, analogous to how biological and computer viruses spread.
The essay was later published in a A Devil's Chaplain (2003) and its ideas are further explored in the television programme, The Root of All Evil?
Dawkins defines the "symptoms" of being infected by the "virus of religion", providing examples for most of them, and tries to define a connection between the elements of religion and its survival value (invoking Zahavi's handicap principle of sexual selection, applied to believers of a religion).
Dawkins also describes religious beliefs as "mind-parasites", and as "gangs <nowiki>[that]</nowiki> will come to constitute a package, which may be sufficiently stable to deserve a collective name such as Roman Catholicism ... or ... component parts to a single virus".
Dawkins suggests that religious belief in the "faith-sufferer" typically shows the following elements: Dawkins stresses his claim that religious beliefs do not spread as a result of evidence in their support, but typically by cultural transmission, in most cases from parents or from charismatic individuals.
He refers to this as involving "epidemiology, not evidence".
Further Dawkins distinguishes this process from the spread of scientific ideas, which, he suggests, is constrained by the requirement to conform with certain virtues of standard methodology: "testability, evidential support, precision, quantifiability, consistency, intersubjectivity, repeatability, universality, progressiveness, independence of cultural milieu, and so on".
He points out that faith "spreads despite a total lack of every single one of these virtues".
The idea that "God" and "Faith" are viruses of the mind has provoked some hostile criticism, including John Bowker's 1992–1993 Gresham College lectures, in which he suggests that Dawkins' "account of religious motivation ... is ... far removed from evidence and data" and that, even if the God-meme approach were valid, "it does not give rise to one set of consequences ... Out of the many behaviours it produces, why are we required to isolate only those that might be regarded as diseased?"
Alister McGrath, a Christian theologian, has also commented critically on Dawkins' analysis, suggesting that "memes have no place in serious scientific reflection", that there is strong evidence that such ideas are not spread by random processes, but by deliberate intentional actions, that "evolution" of ideas is more Lamarckian than Darwinian, and suggests there is no evidence that epidemiological models usefully explain the spread of religious ideas.
McGrath also cites a metareview of 100 studies and argues that "If religion is reported as having a positive effect on human well-being by 79% of recent studies in the field, how can it conceivably be regarded as analogous to a virus?"
Daura-Suruwal or Labeda Suruwal, is a traditional and former national costume of Nepal worn by men.
It is also worn by neighboring Indian peoples of Sikkim and Darjeeling.
The equivalent female national costume is the Gunyou Cholo.
The coat was added to the costume by Jang Bahadur Rana, Prime minister of Nepal in the 19th century.
Daura is a variant of Kurta and the upper wear and Suruwal is the trouser.
Daura Suruwal has several religious beliefs identifying its designs and has remained the same for centuries.
The Daura has eight strings denoted as Astamatrika-Singini as follows.
The outfit's history dates back to approximately 150 years.
The Nepalese Prime Minister Bir Shamsher Jang Bahadur Rana wore the Daura-Suruwal on an unofficial visit to the United Kingdom in the 19th century, which popularized it further in Nepal.
In 2017 B.S., (1960), the Daura-Suruwal was designated the national uniform for men in government positions.
The use of the outfit as a government uniform or as a popular form of clothing has declined since that time, but also has increased use among Nepali nationalists in the Darjeeling province of India.
History tells Rana Prime Minister Janga Bahadur Rana introduced coat in Nepal in the 19th century.
He was presented gift of coat by Queen of England.
He started the tradition of wearing coat on the Daura suruwal.
From then the tradition of wearing Daura with Suruwal became Daura Suruwal and Coat.
Men wear Daura Suruwal with East Coat (Waist Coat) too.
This combination is a kind of informal wear.
In 2017 B.S.
Daura Suruwal was announced as national dress for men in government services and other national programs.
Daura suruwal took a great pace of development in those years.
Very few of Nepali now wear Daura Suruwal.
After 2046 B.S none of the elected or interim governments is able to define and announce any national the national dress.
Now, there is no such dress or uniform that we can point our officially as Nepali.
We still regard Daura suruwal as National dress of Nepal.
Now Daura Suruwal is now confined only in the list of national signs and as groom’s wedding dress.
None of the members of constitutional assembly or any leader hardly wear any uniform as we can say national.
The new generation may hardly own a pair of Daura-Suruwal.
The dress is stated as an official as it has been confined only in the list of national signs and the officials under the panel of His Majesty's Government.
The new generation hardly owns a pair of Daura-Suruwal, and majority of them wouldn't prefer this outfit.
Unlike Nepali women's attire-'Sari' is winning its appearance in the fashion world.
Daura-Suruwal, the Nepali national dress is not that fashionable among men.
However, the dress is well-known among its lovers and it is successful to establish its own image in the market.
We wish it will soon reach its popularity in the global market.
We are slowly forgetting our traditional values and nationalities.
We love Daura Suruwal and all Nepali traditional dresses from Mountain, Hill and Terai.
We can at least announce something as our national dress which represents Nepal.
There should be something we should wear and say this is “Nepali”.
Religious Belief of Daura Suruwal Daura-Suruwal, typically termed ‘Labeda-Suruwal’ is the traditional Nepali dress.
The dress has several religious beliefs identifying its designs and remained the same from the years.
The Daura has eight stringscalled, ‘Astamatrika-Singini, Byagini, Kumari, Barahi, Brahmayani, Indrayani, Maheshowri, Byasnabi, and Mahalaxmi’, that serves to tie itself up around the body and eight is a lucky number according to our mythology.
Also, the Daura has five pleats or Kallis, signifying Pancha Buddha or Pancha Ratna.
And the closed neck of the Daura signifies the snake around the Lord Shiva’s neck.
Javier Melloni Ribas is an Italian-Catalan anthropologist, theologist, writer Jesuit.
Javier Melloni Ribas was born in Barcelona in 1962; his mother is Catalan and his father, Italian.
At 18 he get into Society of Jesus  He became Jesuit pries, he is graduated from cultural anthropology and obtained a PhD in theology.
Currently he lives in the Cueva de San Ignacio in Manresa, Catalonia.
Melloni is a Jesuit who became interested in the Ignatius spiritual exercises and acquired thorough knowledge of religious texts.
He is a member of Cristianisme i Justícia, Spiritual Theology professor in the Faculty of Theology of Catalonia and in the institute of Fundamental Theology in Sant Cugat.
His specializes on interreligious dialogue and comparative mysticism.
He is on the editorial board of journalistic publications such as Manresa (a journal of Ignatian spirituality) and Diagonal (a journal of interreligious dialogue).
He is the author of essays of different topics focused on spirituality, theology, interreligious dialogue and comparative mysticism.
Amongst them his theoretical and practical exercises are presented.
Javier Melloni is well known for being a theologist who practices, theorizes and reflects about interreligious dialogue.
Melloni proofs the proverb: extra Ecclesiam nulla salus (outside church there is no salvation) This expression was first formulated by St. Cipriano de Cartago(288): it was resumed and strengthen in the fourteenth century by Boni Facio VIII in his Bull Unam Sanctam (1302), and submits it to the next level distanced from the actual religion in order to  find essential contact points passing through many religions and that raises them in a purely spiritual way.
The ultimate goal is to give Javier Melloni that "respect and acceptance of others, reflecting the opening and donation to Another".
Melloni’s theoretical background involves anthropological, sociological, epistemological and theological factors.
For him the interreligious dialogue is as a normal dialogue that needs the participants’ willingness to be open-minded and to detach from oneself in order to enable the existence of others.
Based on his ideology, Javier Melloni states that the interreligious dialogue has two main results: 1) the assumption that religious confession leads to mystery and 2) with that assumption people can embrace the spiritual wealth of humanity.
Javier Melloni has studied comparative mysticism as a complement of interreligious dialogue.
He has established that the profound meaning of religious’ mystic does not imply an evasion of the actual world but the opportunity of being self-transformed throughout the most significant religious aspects.
Comparative mysticism involves a journey throughout the mystical experiences that every religion has.
Harrison Sacket Elliott (13 December 1882 &ndash; 25 June 1951) was an ordained Methodist minister and taught at Union Theological Seminary from 1922 to 1950.
His interest in the interplay of psychology, group dynamics, democratic thinking, and liberal theology found expression in his leadership in the Y.M.C.A., ecumenical agencies, the Religious Education Association, and Union Theological Seminary.
The Dialog Center International (DCI) is a Christian counter-cult organization founded in 1973 by a Danish professor of missiology and ecumenical theology, Dr. Johannes Aagaard (1928-2007).
Considered Christian apologetic and missionary minded, the Center, led by Prof. Aagaard was for many years the main source of information in Denmark on cults, sects, and new religious movements.
The Dialog Center is firmly against religious beliefs of cults but promotes dialog between cult members and their families.
It rejects deprograming, believing that it is counterproductive, ineffective, and can harm the relationship between a cult member and concerned family members.
It is active in 20 countries.
In Asia it also tries to share Christianity with Buddhists.
According to According to Mikael Rothstein, an associate professor of religious history at the University of Copenhagen, the Dialog Center International has been greatly influential in promoting a negative public opinion of cults in Denmark and other countries in Europe.
Aagaard regarded Scientology as being especially dangerous, but later in his life stated that Islam was an even greater threat.
Other concerns included Satanism and New Age groups.
He retired from leading the Center in 2002.
In 2012, the new president of DCI, Lutheran priest Thomas Gandow, was awarded Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany.
William Murphy (born 6 June 1936), ordained as a priest in 1961, is since 1995 the Roman Catholic Bishop of Kerry.
Murphy was born in Annaghmore, County Kerry, Ireland.
He received his education at Ratheen National School and St Brendan’s College, Killarney.
He studied for the priesthood at St Patrick's College, Maynooth and was ordained a priest in 1961.
For six years, Murphy taught at St Colman's College, Newry.
He then went on to study catechetics at Lumen Vitae, Brussels, and Fordham University, New York where he earned an MA in Religious Education in 1969.
He was Kerry diocesan advisor for Religious Education in primary schools in 1970, and then spendt three years at the Pontifical Gregorian University, Rome, earning a doctorate in divinity (DD) in 1973.
For the next five years he worked with the ‘Primary Catechetical Commission’ preparing the Children of God series, the primary catechetical program.
Murphy taught theology in the Institute for Religious Education, Mount Oliver, Dundalk for a year before returning to Kerry in 1979 as diocesan director of religious education in post-primary schools and co-ordinator of adult religious education in the diocese.
He was the first director of the John Paul II Pastoral Centre, Killarney, becoming Curate of Killarney Parish in 1987 and Administrator in 1988.
Upon the death of Bishop Diarmaid Ó Súilleabháin in August 1994 he was appointed Administrator of the diocese of Kerry, and was elevated to Bishop in 1995.
Hellenism (Greek: Ἑλληνισμός), the Hellenic ethnic religion (Ἑλληνικὴ εθνική θρησκεία), also commonly known as Hellenismos, Dodekatheism (Δωδεκαθεϊσμός), or Olympianism, refers to various religious movements that revive ancient Greek religious practices, publicly, emerging since the 1990s.
The Hellenic religion is a traditional religion and way of life, revolving around the Greek Gods, primarily focused on the Twelve Olympians, and embracing ancient Hellenic values and virtues.
Dodekatheism originated in and is practiced in Greece and in other countries.
Leaders of the movement claimed in 2005 that there are as many as 2,000 adherents to the Hellenic tradition in Greece, with an additional 100,000 who have "some sort of interest".
No official estimates exist for devotees worldwide.
There are no official naming practices for this religion, but there does seem to be an informal naming convention, based on academically accepted descriptive definitions, adhered to by groups and most individual believers.
Hellenism is the most common term, used chiefly as an identifier for the modern polytheistic religion by its adherents today but it can also refer to the ancient Greek religion and culture.
The term originally stems from a systematization and revival of Greek religion done by the Roman Emperor Julian.
Julian used the term to describe traditional religion of the Greeks (The word can also have other unrelated meanings in modern Greek.)
Additionally, subgroups use a variety of names to distinguish branches focusing on specific schools of thought, or modern traditions focusing on the public practices of individual city-states.
These subgroups can be described as denominations.
Hellenic religion, and Hellenic polytheism can be said to be used interchangeably to refer to the religion, and are synonymous.
The phrase Hellenic Polytheistic Reconstructionism refers more to the methodology used by some practitioners to revive a version of the religion, than the religion itself.
Not all Hellenes are reconstructionists.
Dodekatheism and Olympianism are other names, though less commonly used.
The first Greek organization to openly support the religious revival of Hellenic religion was Ύπατο Συμβούλιο των Ελλήνων Εθνικών (Supreme Council of Ethnikoi Hellenes or YSEE), established in 1997, and is publicly active.
YSEE is a founding member of the World Congress of Ethnic Religions (now European Congress of Ethnic Religions) and hosted the seventh annual WCER Congress in June 2004.
YSEE is also a member of the European Union's action programme to combat discrimination.
The organization primarily refers to the religion as the "Ethnic Polytheistic" or "genuine Hellenism" and its practitioners as Ethnikoi Hellenes, "Ethnic [National] Hellenes".
Another very active organization since its founding at 2008 is Labrys religious community.
Labrys has focused primarily on the religious aspects of Hellenism or Hellenic (Greek) polytheism, avoiding anti-Christian rhetoric and politics, establishing weekly public rituals  and engaging in other aspects of practical promotion of polytheism like theater and music.
Labrys has also promoted among Hellenes worldwide the need to actively practice household worship and the idea that family and community should be the starting points of religious practice.
The community has been organizing since 2008 the largest festival in Athens and also actively participates and supports the religious aspects of the oldest Hellenic festival in Greece, Promitheia which is held every year on Mount Olympus.
Labrys religious community has published the book about .
Other Greek organizations, such as Dodekatheon ( , Dōdekátheon, Of the Twelve Gods), the Helliniki Hetaireia Archaiophilon (Societas Hellenica Antiquariorum), the Thyrsos use a combination of terms interchangeably, including (hellēnikē thrēskeîa, translated as "Hellenic religion"), Hellenic polytheistic religion, and Hellenism.
Dodecatheon and YSEE both use the terms "traditional", "ethnic", and "genuine" to refer to their religious practices.
Greek polytheist author Vlassis Rassias has written a popular series of books on "Christian persecutions against the Hellenes," and the "Church of the Hellenes" organization goes so far as to call for the wholesale extermination of Christianity, while the Athens-based group Ellinais emphasizes "world peace and the brotherhood of man."
Outside Greece, Hellenic religious organizations began to emerge around 1998, with some individuals claiming to have been engaging in some form of traditional practice since the 1970s.
In the United States, the Hellenic polytheist organization Hellenion also identifies its practices as "Hellenic Pagan Reconstructionism" and emphasizes historical accuracy in its mission statement.
The group uses the term "Hellenismos" ( , Hellēnismós) to describe the religion.
Hellenion does not provide official membership numbers to the public, but an unofficial estimate of 43 members can be determined for 2007, though this number can only give the roughest approximation, as Hellenion offers hardship waivers to those who cannot afford the typical membership fees.
In early 2010, the organization reported 1 demos (fully chartered local congregation) and 6 proto-demoi (start-up congregations not fully chartered with less than 3 members) established, which offer rituals and other events for members and frequently for the public as well.
Two of the six proto-demoi cannot be independently verified to exist.
Hellenion offers legal clergy training, basic adult religious education classes, and other educational/training courses for its members.
Another American group, Elaion, uses the term "Dodekatheism" (Greek: , dodeka, "twelve" + , theïsmós, "belief in the gods") to describe their approach to the Hellenic religion.
No reported numbers for current membership levels are known to exist.
Other terms in common usage by Hellenic polytheists include "Greek reconstructionism" and "Hellenic Traditionalism", but the two are not synonymus.
In Brazil, in Portuguese language, there's the website of RHB - Reconstrucionismo Helênico no Brasil, built since 2003 by Brazilian members of Hellenion and other international groups, such as the American Neokoroi and the Greek Thyrsos.
Hellenic polytheists worship the ancient Greek Gods, including the Olympians, nature divinities, underworld deities (chthonic gods) and heroes.
Both physical and spiritual ancestors are honored.
It is primarily a devotional or votive religion, based on the exchange of gifts (offerings) for the gods' blessings.
The ethical convictions of modern Hellenic polytheists are often inspired by ancient Greek virtues such as reciprocity, hospitality, self-control and moderation.
The Delphic maxims, Tenets of Solon, the Golden Verses of Pythagoras, or even Aristotle's Ethics each function as complete moral codes that a Hellenic Polytheist may observe.
Key to most ethical systems is the idea of kharis (or "charis", grace), to establish reciprocity between humanity and the gods, between individuals, and among community members.
Another key value in Hellenic Polytheism is eusebeia, often translated as piety.
This implies a commitment to the worship of the Hellenic gods and action to back this up.
There is no central "ecclesia" (church/assembly) or hierarchal clergy, though some groups (i.e., Hellenion) do offer training in that capacity.
Individual worshipers are generally expected to perform their own rituals and learn about the religion and the gods by reference to primary and secondary sources on ancient Greek religion and through personal experience of the gods.
Information gained from such personal experiences is often referred to in Hellenic groups as "UPG" (Unverified Personal Gnosis), a term borrowed from Ásatrú.
In polytheism, Reconstructionism is a methodology which attempts to accurately base modern religious practice on culturally and historically genuine examples of ancient religious practices.
The term is frequently used in the United States to differentiate between syncretic and eclectic Neopagan movements, and those based on the traditions, writings, history, and mythology of a specific ancient polytheistic culture.
In contrast to the eclectic traditions, Reconstructionists are very culturally oriented and attempt to reconstruct historical forms of religion and spirituality, in a modern context.
Therefore, Kemetic, Canaanite, Hellenic, Roman, Celtic, Germanic, Baltic and Slavic Reconstructionists aim for the revival of historical practices and beliefs of Ancient Egypt, Ancient Canaan and Phoenicia, Ancient Greece, Ancient Rome, the Celts, the Germanic peoples, the Balts and the Slavs, respectively.
Most Hellenic polytheist groups unequivocally state that reconstructionism is not the only correct method of practicing the ancient Greek religion, but do identify a practice as Hellenic only when it embraces the humanistic values and ethical virtues of the ancient Greeks, demonstrates loyalty and reverence toward the Greek gods, and uses a religious structure that would be recognizable to an ancient Greek.
These groups make a clear distinction between themselves and the Neopagan movement, and identify some 'Hellenic' groups as "simply disguised as 'Hellenes' for reasons that exist hidden within the depths of their own minds."
Modern Hellenic polytheist organizations are "revivalist" or "reconstructionist" for the most part, but many adherents like Panagiotis Marinis from the group Dodecatheon in Greece, has stated that the religion of ancient Greece has survived throughout the intervening centuries, and that he, himself, was raised in a family that practiced this religion.
Whether or not they believe that the Hellenic polytheist religious tradition is continuous, there is evidence that Greek Hellenic polytheists within the modern country of Greece see the movement as an expression of Greek cultural heritage, in opposition to the Orthodox Christianity that is overwhelmingly dominant.
The 2004 Summer Olympics stirred up several disputes concerning Hellenic polytheistic religion.
Eta Linnemann (October 19, 1926 Osnabrück - 9 May 2009 Leer (Ostfriesland)) was a German Protestant theologian.
In her last years, she broke completely with the theology of her teacher Rudolf Bultmann.
Eta Linnemann studied Protestant theology in Marburg, Tübingen and Göttingen from October 1948 to July 1953.
In August 1953 she presented at the Georg-August-Universität Göttingen for the First State Examination, and in August 1957, the Second State Examination.
The Evangelical Lutheran Church of Hanover commissioned Linnemann to write interpretations of biblical texts for religious education.
From this work arose her dissertation on the parables of Jesus - Gleichnisse Jesu, Einführung und Auslegung - with which she was promoted to a doctor of theology summa cum laude in July 1961 at the Church University Berlin-Zehlendorf.
Between 1961 and 1966 she taught at the seminar for church service in Berlin-Zehlendorf, in 1967 she was appointed as Visiting Professor at Braunschweig University of Technology.
In February 1970, Eta Linnemann worked in Marburg with Rudolf Bultmann and Ernst Fuchs on studies on the Passion story.
On 10 August 1971, she was awarded an honorary professorship of New Testament at the Theological Faculty of the Philipps-University Marburg.
The following year, the Braunschweig University of Technology appointed her to the chair of theology and methodology of religious education.
Linnemann was a member of the international society Studiorum Novi Testamenti Societas.
Linnemann caused a stir in 1978 when, due to a conversion experience in November 1977 according to her own statement, she renounced the historical-critical method, and asked readers destroy her previous publications.
From 1983, at the age of 60, she departed Germany for Indonesia to train pastors at the Theological University of the Indonesian Mission community in Batu.
In her book "What is credible - the Bible or the Bible criticism" Linnemann claimed in 2007, citing an unnamed ear witness, that Rudolf Bultmann on his death bed had recanted his critical views.
A real proof of that assertion, however, so far (as of 2009) remains only an echo in Bultmann's research.
Eta Linnemann lived her last years in the Loga district of Leer.
Linnemann rejected Markan priority and favored the Independence View of the synoptic gospels.
One of Linnemann's views to find support among conservative English speaking scholarship, notably F. David Farnell, was her rejection of a Q (source) for the synoptic Gospels in favour of an explanation following the Jewish requirement of Deuteronomy 19:15 that "on the evidence of two or three witnesses a matter shall be confirmed".
The Free Exercise Clause is the accompanying clause with the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.
The Establishment Clause and the Free Exercise Clause together read: In 1878, the Supreme Court was first called to interpret the extent of the Free Exercise Clause in Reynolds v. United States, as related to the prosecution of polygamy under federal law.
The Supreme Court upheld Reynolds' conviction for bigamy, deciding that to do otherwise would provide constitutional protection for a gamut of religious beliefs, including those as extreme as human sacrifice.
The Court said: "Congress cannot pass a law for the government of the Territory which shall prohibit the free exercise of religion.
The first amendment to the Constitution expressly forbids such legislation."
Of federal territorial laws, the Court said: "Laws are made for the government of actions, and while they cannot interfere with mere religious beliefs and opinions, they may with practices."
Jehovah's Witnesses were often the target of such restriction.
Several cases involving the Witnesses gave the Court the opportunity to rule on the application of the Free Exercise Clause.
Subsequently, the Warren Court adopted an expansive view of the clause, the "compelling interest" doctrine (whereby a state must show a compelling interest in restricting religion-related activities), but later decisions have reduced the scope of this interpretation.
The history of the Supreme Court's interpretation of the Free Exercise Clause follows a broad arc, beginning with approximately 100 years of little attention, then taking on a relatively narrow view of the governmental restrictions required under the clause, growing into a much broader view in the 1960s, and later again receding.
The first case to closely examine the scope of the Free Exercise Clause was Reynolds v. United States in 1879.
A case dealing with the prosecution of a polygamist under federal law, and the defendant's claim of protection under the Free Exercise Clause, the Court sustained the law and the government's prosecution.
The Court read the Free Exercise Clause as protecting religious practices, but that didn't protect Reynolds', practices which were crimes.
This case, which also revived Thomas Jefferson's statement regarding the "wall of separation" between church and state, introduced the position that although religious exercise is generally protected under the First Amendment, this does not prevent the government from passing neutral laws that incidentally impact certain religious practices.
This interpretation of the Free Exercise Clause continued into the 1960s and the ascendancy of the Warren Court under chief justice Earl Warren.
Applying a new standard of "strict scrutiny" in various areas of civil rights law, the Court began to apply this standard to the First Amendment religion clauses as well, reading the Free Exercise Clause to require accommodation of religious conduct except where a state could show a compelling interest and no less burdensome means to achieve that end.
One example was Sherbert v. Verner, where the Court overturned the state Employment Security Commission's decision to deny unemployment benefits to a practicing member of the Seventh-day Adventist Church who was forced out of a job after her employer adopted a 6-day work week, which would have required her to work on Saturdays against the dictates of her religion.
As Justice William Brennan stated for the majority, "to condition the availability of benefits upon this appellant's willingness to violate a cardinal principle of her religious faith effectively penalizes the free exercise of her constitutional liberties."
This test was used through the years of the Burger Court, including particularly in the landmark case of Wisconsin v. Yoder (1972).
This view of the Free Exercise Clause would begin to narrow again in the 1980s, culminating in the 1990 case of Employment Division v. Smith.
Examining a state prohibition on the use of peyote, the Supreme Court upheld the law despite the drug's use as part of a religious ritual, and without employing the strict scrutiny test.
Instead, the Court again held that a "neutral law of general applicability" generally does not implicate the Free Exercise Clause.
This was followed by intense disapproval from Congress and the passage of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act in 1993 to attempt to restore the prior test.
However, in City of Boerne v. Flores, the Supreme Court struck down the act as applied to the States, holding that it unconstitutionally attempted to usurp the Supreme Court's role in interpreting the Constitution, thus leaving the Smith test in place.
During the twentieth century, many major cases involving the Free Exercise Clause were related to Jehovah's Witnesses.
Many communities directed laws against the Witnesses and their preaching work.
From 1938 to 1955, the organization was involved in over forty cases before the Supreme Court, winning a majority of them.
The first important victory came in 1938, when in Lovell v. City of Griffin, the Supreme Court held that cities could not require permits for the distribution of pamphlets.
In 1939, the Supreme Court decided Schneider v. Town of Irvington, in which it struck down anti-littering laws that were enforced only against Jehovah's Witnesses who were handing out pamphlets.
In 1940, the Court considered Cantwell v. Connecticut; the plaintiff, a Jehovah's Witness, was charged with soliciting donations without a certificate from the Public Welfare Council.
The Council was to grant the certificate only if the organization requesting it was a charity or sponsored a religious cause.
The Supreme Court ruled that any law granting a public body the function of determining if a cause is religious or not violates the First Amendment.
In 1940, the Supreme Court would decide in Minersville School District v. Gobitis that members of the Jehovah's Witnesses in a school could be required to salute the flag.
The ruling in Gobitis, however, did not stand for long.
In 1943, West Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette, the Supreme Court essentially reversed its previous opinion.
Justice Frankfurter had, in the Gobitis case, suggested that the Witnesses attempt to reverse the School Board's policy by exercising their vote.
In the Barnette case, however, Justice Robert H. Jackson wrote, "the very purpose of the Bill of Rights was to withdraw certain subjects from the vicissitudes of political controversy, to place them beyond the reach of majorities ... One's right to life, liberty, and property, to free speech, a free press, freedom of worship and assembly, and other fundamental rights may not be submitted to vote."
The Supreme Court did not rule that the Pledge was unconstitutional; rather, they held that students may not be compelled to recite it.
The Supreme Court under Earl Warren adopted an expansive view of the Free Exercise Clause.
In, Sherbert v. Verner (1963) the Court held that states must have a "compelling interest" to refuse to accommodate religiously motivated conduct.
The case involved Adele Sherbert, who was denied unemployment benefits by South Carolina because she refused to work on Saturdays, something forbidden by her Seventh-day Adventist faith.
In Wisconsin v. Yoder (1972), the Court ruled that a law that "unduly burdens the practice of religion" without a compelling interest, even though it might be "neutral on its face," would be unconstitutional.
The "compelling interest" doctrine became much narrower in 1990, when the Supreme Court held in Employment Division v. Smith that, as long as a law does not target a particular religious practice, it does not violate the Free Exercise Clause.
In 1993, the Supreme Court revisited the Free Exercise Clause in Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye v. City of Hialeah.
Hialeah had passed an ordinance banning ritual slaughter, a practice central to the Santería religion, while providing exceptions for some practices such as the kosher slaughter of Judaism.
Since the ordinance was not "generally applicable," the Court ruled that it was subject to the compelling interest test, which it failed to meet, and was therefore declared unconstitutional.
Also in 1993, Congress passed the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA), which sought to restore the "compelling interest" standard.
In City of Boerne v. Flores (1997) the Court struck down as exceeding Congress's powers those provisions of the Act that forced state and local governments to provide protections exceeding those required by the First Amendment.
According to the court's ruling in Gonzales v. UDV (2006), RFRA remains applicable to federal statutes, which must therefore still meet the "compelling interest" standard in free exercise cases.
Religion is a cultural system of behaviors and practices, world views, ethics, and social organisation that relate humanity to an order of existence.
About 84% of the world's population is affiliated with one of the five largest religions, namely Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism or folk religion.
The study of religion encompasses a wide variety of academic disciplines, including comparative religion and social scientific studies.
Theories of religion offer explanations for the origins and workings of religion.
With the onset of the modernisation of and the scientific revolution in the western world, some aspects of religion have cumulatively been criticized.
Though the religiously unaffliated, including Atheism and Agnosticism, have grown globally, many of the unaffiliated still have various religious beliefs.
About 16% of the world's population is religiously unaffiliated.
Issues in some way related to religion include "Reason and science", economics, health, and morality.
religion "religious community", from L. religionem (nom.
religio) "respect for what is sacred, reverence for the gods", "obligation, the bond between man and the gods") is derived from the Latin religiō, the ultimate origins of which are obscure.
One possibility is an interpretation traced to Cicero, connecting "read", i.e.
re (again) + lego in the sense of "choose", "go over again" or "consider carefully".
Modern scholars such as Tom Harpur and Joseph Campbell favor the derivation from "bind, connect", probably from a prefixed , i.e.
re (again) + ligare or "to reconnect", which was made prominent by St. Augustine, following the interpretation of Lactantius.
The medieval usage alternates with order in designating bonded communities like those of monastic orders: "we hear of the 'religion' of the Golden Fleece, of a knight 'of the religion of Avys'".
In the ancient and medieval world, the etymological Latin root religio was understood as an individual virtue of worship, never as doctrine, practice, or actual source of knowledge.
The modern concept of "religion" as an abstraction which entails distinct sets of beliefs or doctrines is a recent invention in the English language since such usage began with texts from the 17th century due to the splitting of Christendom during the Protestant Reformation and more prevalent colonization or globalization in the age of exploration which involved contact with numerous foreign and indigenous cultures with non-European languages.
It was in the 17th century that the concept of "religion" received its modern shape despite the fact that ancient texts like the Bible, the Quran, and other ancient sacred texts did not have a concept of religion in the original languages and neither did the people or the cultures in which these sacred texts were written.
For example, the Greek word threskeia, which was used by Greek writers such as Herodotus and Josephus and is found in texts like the New Testament, is sometimes translated as "religion" today, however, the term was understood as "worship" well into the medieval period.
In the Quran, the Arabic word din is often translated as "religion" in modern translations, but up to the mid-1600s translators expressed din as "law".
Even in the 1st century AD, Josephus had used the Greek term ioudaismos, which some translate as "Judaism" today, even though he used it as an ethnic term, not one linked to modern abstract concepts of religion as a set of beliefs.
It was in the 19th century that the terms "Buddhism", "Hinduism", "Taoism", and "Confucianism" first emerged.
Throughout its long history, Japan had no concept of "religion" since there was no corresponding Japanese word, nor anything close to its meaning, but when American warships appeared off the coast of Japan in 1853 and forced the Japanese government to sign treaties demanding, among other things, freedom of religion, the country had to contend with this Western idea.
According to the philologist Max Müller in the 19th century, the root of the English word "religion", the Latin religio, was originally used to mean only "reverence for God or the gods, careful pondering of divine things, piety" (which Cicero further derived to mean "diligence").
Max Müller characterized many other cultures around the world, including Egypt, Persia, and India, as having a similar power structure at this point in history.
What is called ancient religion today, they would have only called "law".
Many languages have words that can be translated as "religion", but they may use them in a very different way, and some have no word for religion at all.
For example, the Sanskrit word dharma, sometimes translated as "religion", also means law.
Throughout classical South Asia, the study of law consisted of concepts such as penance through piety and ceremonial as well as practical traditions.
Medieval Japan at first had a similar union between "imperial law" and universal or "Buddha law", but these later became independent sources of power.
There is no precise equivalent of "religion" in Hebrew, and Judaism does not distinguish clearly between religious, national, racial, or ethnic identities.
One of its central concepts is "halakha", meaning the "walk" or "path" sometimes translated as "law", which guides religious practice and belief and many aspects of daily life.
The word religion is sometimes used interchangeably with faith or set of duties; however, in the words of Émile Durkheim, religion differs from private belief in that it is "something eminently social".
The use of other terms, such as obedience to God or Islam are likewise grounded in particular histories and vocabularies.
An increasing number of scholars have expressed reservations about ever defining the "essence" of religion.
They observe that the way we use the concept today is a particularly modern construct that would not have been understood through much of history and in many cultures outside the West (or even in the West until after the Peace of Westphalia).
The MacMIllan Encyclopedia of Relions states: Friedrich Schleiermacher in the late 18th century defined religion as das schlechthinnige Abhängigkeitsgefühl, commonly translated as "a feeling of absolute dependence".
His contemporary Hegel disagreed thoroughly, defining religion as "the Divine Spirit becoming conscious of Himself through the finite spirit."
Edward Burnett Tylor defined religion in 1871 as "the belief in spiritual beings".
He argued that narrowing the definition to mean the belief in a supreme deity or judgment after death or idolatry and so on, would exclude many peoples from the category of religious, and thus "has the fault of identifying religion rather with particular developments than with the deeper motive which underlies them".
He also argued that the belief in spiritual beings exists in all known societies.
In his book The Varieties of Religious Experience, the psychologist William James defined religion as "the feelings, acts, and experiences of individual men in their solitude, so far as they apprehend themselves to stand in relation to whatever they may consider the divine".
By the term "divine" James meant "any object that is godlike, whether it be a concrete deity or not" to which the individual feels impelled to respond with solemnity and gravity.
The sociologist Durkheim, in his seminal book The Elementary Forms of the Religious Life, defined religion as a "unified system of beliefs and practices relative to sacred things".
By sacred things he meant things "set apart and forbidden—beliefs and practices which unite into one single moral community called a Church, all those who adhere to them".
Sacred things are not, however, limited to gods or spirits.That is how, according to Durkheim, Buddhism is a religion.
"In default of gods, Buddhism admits the existence of sacred things, namely, the four noble truths and the practices derived from them" (ibid, p. 45).< </ref> On the contrary, a sacred thing can be "a rock, a tree, a spring, a pebble, a piece of wood, a house, in a word, anything can be sacred".
Religious beliefs, myths, dogmas and legends are the representations that express the nature of these sacred things, and the virtues and powers which are attributed to them.
Echoes of James' and Durkheim's definitions are to be found in the writings of, for example, Frederick Ferré who defined religion as "one's way of valuing most comprehensively and intensively".
Similarly, for the theologian Paul Tillich, faith is "the state of being ultimately concerned", which "is itself religion.
Religion is the substance, the ground, and the depth of man's spiritual life."
When religion is seen in terms of "sacred", "divine", intensive "valuing", or "ultimate concern", then it is possible to understand why scientific findings and philosophical criticisms (e.g.
Richard Dawkins) do not necessarily disturb its adherents.
The anthropologist Clifford Geertz defined religion as a Alluding perhaps to Tylor's "deeper motive", Geertz remarked that The theologian Antoine Vergote took the term "supernatural" simply to mean whatever transcends the powers of nature or human agency.
He also emphasized the "cultural reality" of religion, which he defined as Peter Mandaville and Paul James intended to get away from the modernist dualisms or dichotomous understandings of immanence/transcendence, spirituality/materialism, and sacredness/secularity.
According to the MacMillan Encyclopedia of Religions, there is an experiential aspect to religion which can be found in almost every culture: A religion is a cultural system of behaviors and practices, mythologies and world views, sacred texts, holy places, ethics, and societal organisation that relate humanity to an order of existence.
The practices of a religion may include rituals, sermons, commemoration or veneration (of a deity, gods, or goddesses), sacrifices, festivals, feasts, trances, initiations, funerary services, matrimonial services, meditation, prayer, music, art, dance, public service, or other aspects of human culture.
Religions have mythology sacred histories and narratives, which may be preserved in sacred scriptures, and symbols and holy places, that aim to explain the meaning of life, the origin of life, or the Universe.
Traditionally, faith, in addition to reason, has been considered a source of religious beliefs.
The interplay between faith and reason, and their use as actual or perceived support for religious beliefs, have been a subject of interest to philosophers and theologians.
The word myth has several meanings.
Ancient polytheistic religions, such as those of Greece, Rome, and Scandinavia, are usually categorized under the heading of mythology.
Religions of pre-industrial peoples, or cultures in development, are similarly called "myths" in the anthropology of religion.
The term "myth" can be used pejoratively by both religious and non-religious people.
By defining another person's religious stories and beliefs as mythology, one implies that they are less real or true than one's own religious stories and beliefs.
Joseph Campbell remarked, "Mythology is often thought of as other people's religions, and religion can be defined as mis-interpreted mythology."
In sociology, however, the term myth has a non-pejorative meaning.
There, myth is defined as a story that is important for the group whether or not it is objectively or provably true.
Examples include the death and resurrection of Jesus, which, to Christians, explains the means by which they are freed from sin and is also ostensibly a historical event.
But from a mythological outlook, whether or not the event actually occurred is unimportant.
Instead, the symbolism of the death of an old "life" and the start of a new "life" is what is most significant.
Religious believers may or may not accept such symbolic interpretations.
Superstition has been described as "the incorrect establishment of cause and effect" or a false conception of causation.
Religion is more complex and includes social institutions and morality.
But religions may include superstitions or make use of magical thinking.
Adherents of one religion sometimes think of other religions as superstition.
Some atheists, deists, and skeptics regard religious belief as superstition.
Greek and Roman pagans, who saw their relations with the gods in political and social terms, scorned the man who constantly trembled with fear at the thought of the gods (deisidaimonia), as a slave might fear a cruel and capricious master.
The Romans called such fear of the gods superstitio.
Early Christianity was outlawed as a superstitio Iudaica, a "Jewish superstition", by Domitian in the 80s AD.
In AD 425, when Rome had become Christian, Theodosius II outlawed pagan traditions as superstitious.
Ancient greek historian Polybius described superstition in Ancient Rome as an instrumentum regni, an instrument of maintaining the cohesion of the Empire.
The Roman Catholic Church considers superstition to be sinful in the sense that it denotes a lack of trust in the divine providence of God and, as such, is a violation of the first of the Ten Commandments.
The Catechism of the Catholic Church states that superstition "in some sense represents a perverse excess of religion" (para.
"Superstition," it says, "is a deviation of religious feeling and of the practices this feeling imposes.
It can even affect the worship we offer the true God, e.g., when one attributes an importance in some way magical to certain practices otherwise lawful or necessary.
To attribute the efficacy of prayers or of sacramental signs to their mere external performance, apart from the interior dispositions that they demand is to fall into superstition.
Religions have a societal basis, either as a living tradition which is carried by lay participants, or with an organized clergy, and a definition of what constitutes adherence or membership.
The list of still-active religious movements given here is an attempt to summarize the most important regional and philosophical influences on local communities, but it is by no means a complete description of every religious community, nor does it explain the most important elements of individual religiousness.
In the 19th and 20th centuries, the academic practice of comparative religion divided religious belief into philosophically defined categories called "world religions."
Some academics studying the subject have divided religions into three broad categories: Some recent scholarship has argued that not all types of religion are necessarily separated by mutually exclusive philosophies, and furthermore that the utility of ascribing a practice to a certain philosophy, or even calling a given practice religious, rather than cultural, political, or social in nature, is limited.
The current state of psychological study about the nature of religiousness suggests that it is better to refer to religion as a largely invariant phenomenon that should be distinguished from cultural norms (i.e.
"religions").
Some scholars classify religions as either universal religions that seek worldwide acceptance and actively look for new converts, or ethnic religions that are identified with a particular ethnic group and do not seek converts.
Others reject the distinction, pointing out that all religious practices, whatever their philosophical origin, are ethnic because they come from a particular culture.
The five largest religious groups by world population, estimated to account for 5.8 billion people and 84% of the population, are Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, Hinduism (with the relative numbers for Buddhism and Hinduism dependent on the extent of syncretism) and traditional folk religion.
A global poll in 2012 surveyed 57 countries and reported that 59% of the world's population identified as religious, 23% as not religious, 13% as "convinced atheists", and also a 9% decrease in identification as "religious" when compared to the 2005 average from 39 countries.
A follow up poll in 2015 found that 63% of the globe identified as religious, 22% as not religious, and 11% as "convinced atheists".
On average, women are "more religious" than men.
Some people follow multiple religions or multiple religious principles at the same time, regardless of whether or not the religious principles they follow traditionally allow for syncretism.
Abrahamic religions are monotheistic religions which believe they descend from Abraham.
Judaism is the oldest Abrahamic religion, originating in the people of ancient Israel and Judea.
The Torah is its foundational text, and is part of the larger text known as the Tanakh or Hebrew Bible.
It is supplemented by oral tradition, set down in written form in later texts such as the Midrash and the Talmud.
Judaism includes a wide corpus of texts, practices, theological positions, and forms of organization.
Within Judaism there are a variety of movements, most of which emerged from Rabbinic Judaism, which holds that God revealed his laws and commandments to Moses on Mount Sinai in the form of both the Written and Oral Torah; historically, this assertion was challenged by various groups.
The Jewish people were scattered after the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem in 70 CE.
Today there are about 13 million Jews, about 40 per cent living in Israel and 40 per cent in the United States.
The largest Jewish religious movements are Orthodox Judaism (Haredi Judaism and Modern Orthodox Judaism), Conservative Judaism and Reform Judaism.
Christianity is based on the life and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth (1st century) as presented in the New Testament.
The Christian faith is essentially faith in Jesus as the Christ, the Son of God, and as Savior and Lord.
Almost all Christians believe in the Trinity, which teaches the unity of Father, Son (Jesus Christ), and Holy Spirit as three persons in one Godhead.
Most Christians can describe their faith with the Nicene Creed.
As the religion of Byzantine Empire in the first millennium and of Western Europe during the time of colonization, Christianity has been propagated throughout the world.
The main divisions of Christianity are, according to the number of adherents: There are also smaller groups, including: Islam is based on the Quran, one of the holy books considered by Muslims to be revealed by God, and on the teachings (hadith) of the Islamic prophet Muhammad, a major political and religious figure of the 7th century CE.
Islam is the most widely practiced religion of Southeast Asia, North Africa, Western Asia, and Central Asia, while Muslim-majority countries also exist in parts of South Asia, Sub-Saharan Africa, and Southeast Europe.
There are also several Islamic republics, including Iran, Pakistan, Mauritania, and Afghanistan.
Other denominations of Islam include Nation of Islam, Ibadi, Sufism, Quranism, Mahdavia, and non-denominational Muslims.
Wahhabism is the dominant Muslim schools of thought in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
The Bahá'í Faith is an Abrahamic religion founded in 19th century Iran and since then has spread worldwide.
It teaches unity of all religious philosophies and accepts all of the prophets of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam as well as additional prophets including its founder Bahá'u'lláh.
One of its divisions is the Orthodox Bahá'í Faith.
Smaller regional Abrahamic groups also exist, including Samaritanism (primarily in Israel and the West Bank), the Rastafari movement (primarily in Jamaica), and Druze (primarily in Syria and Lebanon).
East Asian religions (also known as Far Eastern religions or Taoic religions) consist of several religions of East Asia which make use of the concept of Tao (in Chinese) or Dō (in Japanese or Korean).
Indian religions are practiced or were founded in the Indian subcontinent.
They are sometimes classified as the dharmic religions, as they all feature dharma, the specific law of reality and duties expected according to the religion.
Hinduism is a synecdoche describing the similar philosophies of Vaishnavism, Shaivism, and related groups practiced or founded in the Indian subcontinent.
Concepts most of them share in common include karma, caste, reincarnation, mantras, yantras, and darśana.Hinduism is variously defined as a "religion", "set of religious beliefs and practices", "religious tradition" etc.
For a discussion on the topic, see: "Establishing the boundaries" in Gavin Flood (2003), pp.
1-17.
René Guénon in his Introduction to the Study of the Hindu doctrines (1921 ed.
), , Sophia Perennis, ISBN 0-900588-74-8, proposes a definition of the term "religion" and a discussion of its relevance (or lack of) to Hindu doctrines (part II, chapter 4, p. 58).< </ref> Hinduism is the most ancient of still-active religions, with origins perhaps as far back as prehistoric times.
Hinduism is not a monolithic religion but a religious category containing dozens of separate philosophies amalgamated as Sanātana Dharma, which is the name by which Hinduism has been known throughout history by its followers.
Jainism, taught primarily by Parsva (9th century BCE) and Mahavira (6th century BCE), is an ancient Indian religion that prescribes a path of non-violence for all forms of living beings in this world.
Jains are found mostly in India.
Buddhism was founded by Siddhattha Gotama in the 6th century BCE.
Buddhists generally agree that Gotama aimed to help sentient beings end their suffering (dukkha) by understanding the true nature of phenomena, thereby escaping the cycle of suffering and rebirth (saṃsāra), that is, achieving nirvana.
Sikhism is a monotheistic religion founded on the teachings of Guru Nanak and ten successive Sikh gurus in 15th century Punjab.
It is the fifth-largest organized religion in the world, with approximately 30 million Sikhs.
Sikhs are expected to embody the qualities of a Sant-Sipāhī—a saint-soldier, have control over one's internal vices and be able to be constantly immersed in virtues clarified in the Guru Granth Sahib.
The principal beliefs of Sikhi are faith in Waheguru—represented by the phrase , meaning one God, who prevails in everything, along with a praxis in which the Sikh is enjoined to engage in social reform through the pursuit of justice for all human beings.
Indigenous religions or folk religions refers to a broad category of traditional religions that can be characterised by shamanism, animism and ancestor worship, where traditional means "indigenous, that which is aboriginal or foundational, handed down from generation to generation…".
These are religions that are closely associated with a particular group of people, ethnicity or tribe; they often have no formal creeds or sacred texts.
Some faiths are syncretic, fusing diverse religious beliefs and practices.
Folk religions are often omitted as a category in surveys even in countries where they are widely practiced, e.g.
in China.
African traditional religion encompasses the traditional religious beliefs of people in Africa.
In north Africa, these religions have included traditional Berber religion, ancient Egyptian religion, and Waaq.
West African religions include Akan religion, Dahomey (Fon) mythology, Efik mythology, Odinani of the Igbo people, Serer religion, and Yoruba religion, while Bushongo mythology, Mbuti (Pygmy) mythology, Lugbara mythology, Dinka religion, and Lotuko mythology come from central Africa.
Southern African traditions include Akamba mythology, Masai mythology, Malagasy mythology, San religion, Lozi mythology, Tumbuka mythology, and Zulu mythology.
Bantu mythology is found throughout central, southeast, and southern Africa.
There are also notable African diasporic religions practiced in the Americas, such as Santeria, Candomble, Vodun, Lucumi, Umbanda, and Macumba.
Iranian religions are ancient religions whose roots predate the Islamization of Greater Iran.
Nowadays these religions are practiced only by minorities.
Zoroastrianism is based on the teachings of prophet Zoroaster in the 6th century BC.
Zoroastrians worship the creator Ahura Mazda.
In Zoroastrianism good and evil have distinct sources, with evil trying to destroy the creation of Mazda, and good trying to sustain it.
Mandaeism is a monotheistic religion with a strongly dualistic worldview.
Mandaeans are sometime labeled as the "Last Gnostics".
Kurdish religions include the traditional beliefs of the Yazidi, Alevi, and Ahl-e Haqq.
Sometimes these are labeled Yazdânism.
Sociological classifications of religious movements suggest that within any given religious group, a community can resemble various types of structures, including "churches", "denominations", "sects", "cults", and "institutions".
Because religion continues to be recognized in Western thought as a universal impulse, many religious practitioners have aimed to band together in interfaith dialogue, cooperation, and religious peacebuilding.
The first major dialogue was the Parliament of the World's Religions at the 1893 Chicago World's Fair, which remains notable even today both in affirming "universal values" and recognition of the diversity of practices among different cultures.
The 20th century has been especially fruitful in use of interfaith dialogue as a means of solving ethnic, political, or even religious conflict, with Christian–Jewish reconciliation representing a complete reverse in the attitudes of many Christian communities towards Jews.
Recent interfaith initiatives include "A Common Word", launched in 2007 and focused on bringing Muslim and Christian leaders together, the "C1 World Dialogue", the "Common Ground" initiative between Islam and Buddhism, and a United Nations sponsored "World Interfaith Harmony Week".
A number of disciplines study the phenomenon of religion: theology, comparative religion, history of religion, evolutionary origin of religions, anthropology of religion, psychology of religion, including neurosciences of religion and evolutionary psychology of religion, sociology of religion, and Law and Religion.
Daniel L. Pals mentions eight classical theories of religion, focusing on various aspects of religion: animism and magic, by E.B.
Tylor and J.G.
Frazer; the psycho-analytic approach of Sigmund Freud; and further Emile Durkheim, Karl Marx, Max Weber, Mircea Eliade, E.E.
Evans-Pritchard, and Clifford Geertz.
Michael Stausberg gives an overview of contemporary theories of religion, including cognitive and biological approaches.
Nicholas de Lange, Professor of Hebrew and Jewish Studies at Cambridge University, says that The origin of religion is uncertain.
There are a number of theories regarding the subsequent origins of religious practices.
According to anthropologists John Monaghan and Peter Just, "Many of the great world religions appear to have begun as revitalization movements of some sort, as the vision of a charismatic prophet fires the imaginations of people seeking a more comprehensive answer to their problems than they feel is provided by everyday beliefs.
Charismatic individuals have emerged at many times and places in the world.
It seems that the key to long-term success – and many movements come and go with little long-term effect – has relatively little to do with the prophets, who appear with surprising regularity, but more to do with the development of a group of supporters who are able to institutionalize the movement."
The development of religion has taken different forms in different cultures.
Some religions place an emphasis on belief, while others emphasize practice.
Some religions focus on the subjective experience of the religious individual, while others consider the activities of the religious community to be most important.
Some religions claim to be universal, believing their laws and cosmology to be binding for everyone, while others are intended to be practiced only by a closely defined or localized group.
In many places religion has been associated with public institutions such as education, hospitals, the family, government, and political hierarchies.
Anthropologists John Monoghan and Peter Just state that, "it seems apparent that one thing religion or belief helps us do is deal with problems of human life that are significant, persistent, and intolerable.
One important way in which religious beliefs accomplish this is by providing a set of ideas about how and why the world is put together that allows people to accommodate anxieties and deal with misfortune."
While religion is difficult to define, one standard model of religion, used in religious studies courses, was proposed by Clifford Geertz, who simply called it a "cultural system".
A critique of Geertz's model by Talal Asad categorized religion as "an anthropological category".
One modern academic theory of religion, social constructionism, says that religion is a modern concept that suggests all spiritual practice and worship follows a model similar to the Abrahamic religions as an orientation system that helps to interpret reality and define human beings.
Among the main proponents of this theory of religion are Daniel Dubuisson, Timothy Fitzgerald, Talal Asad, and Jason Ānanda Josephson.
The social constructionists argue that religion is a modern concept that developed from Christianity and was then applied inappropriately to non-Western cultures.
The study of law and religion is a relatively new field, with several thousand scholars involved in law schools, and academic departments including political science, religion, and history since 1980.
Scholars in the field are not only focused on strictly legal issues about religious freedom or non-establishment, but also study religions as they are qualified through judicial discourses or legal understanding of religious phenomena.
Exponents look at canon law, natural law, and state law, often in a comparative perspective.
Specialists have explored themes in western history regarding Christianity and justice and mercy, rule and equity, and discipline and love.
Common topics of interest include marriage and the family and human rights.
Outside of Christianity, scholars have looked at law and religion links in the Muslim Middle East and pagan Rome.
Studies have focused on secularization.
In particular the issue of wearing religious symbols in public, such as headscarves that are banned in French schools, have received scholarly attention in the context of human rights and feminism.
Science acknowledges reason, empiricism, and evidence; and religions include revelation, faith and sacredness whilst also acknowledging Philosophical and Metaphysical explanations with regard to the study of the Universe.
Both science and religion are not monolithic, timeless, or static because both are complex social and cultural endeavors that have changed through time across languages and cultures.
The concepts of "science" and "religion" are a recent invention: "religion" emerged in the 17th century in the midst of colonization and globalization and the Protestant Reformation, "science" emerged in the 19th century in the midst of attempts to narrowly define those who studied nature, and the phrase "religion and science" emerged in the 19th century due to the reification of both concepts.
It was in the 19th century that the terms "Buddhism", "Hinduism", "Taoism", and "Confucianism" first emerged.
In the ancient and medieval world, the etymological Latin roots of both science (scientia) and religion (religio) were understood as inner qualities of the individual or virtues, never as doctrines, practices, or actual sources of knowledge.
In general the scientific method gains knowledge by testing hypotheses to develop theories through elucidation of facts or evaluation by experiments and thus only answers cosmological questions about the universe that can be observed and measured.
It develops theories of the world which best fit physically observed evidence.
All scientific knowledge is subject to later refinement, or even rejection, in the face of additional evidence.
Scientific theories that have an overwhelming preponderance of favorable evidence are often treated as de facto verities in general parlance, such as the theories of general relativity and natural selection to explain respectively the mechanisms of gravity and evolution.
Religion does not have a method per se partly because religions emerge through time from diverse cultures and it is an attempt to find meaning in the world, and to explain humanity's place in it and relationship to it and to any posited entities.
In terms of Christian theology and ultimate truths, people rely on reason, experience, scripture, and tradition to test and gauge what they experience and what they should believe.
Furthermore, religious models, understanding, and metaphors are also revisable, as are scientific models.
Regarding religion and science, Albert Einstein states (1940): "For science can only ascertain what is, but not what should be, and outside of its domain value judgments of all kinds remain necessary.
Religion, on the other hand, deals only with evaluations of human thought and action; it cannot justifiably speak of facts and relationships between facts…Now, even though the realms of religion and science in themselves are clearly marked off from each other, nevertheless there exist between the two strong reciprocal relationships and dependencies.
Though religion may be that which determine the goals, it has, nevertheless, learned from science, in the broadest sense, what means will contribute to the attainment of the goals it has set up."
One study has found there is a negative correlation between self-defined religiosity and the wealth of nations.
However many people identify themselves as part of a religion (not irreligion) but do not self-identify as "religious".
For example, in China only about 10% self-identify as "religious" but only 12% self-identify as atheist.
In other words, the richer a nation is, the less likely its inhabitants to call themselves "religious", whatever this may mean to them.
Sociologist and political economist Max Weber has argued that Protestant Christian countries are wealthier because of their Protestant work ethic.
Mayo Clinic researchers examined the association between religious involvement and spirituality, and physical health, mental health, health-related quality of life, and other health outcomes.
The authors reported that: "Most studies have shown that religious involvement and spirituality are associated with better health outcomes, including greater longevity, coping skills, and health-related quality of life (even during terminal illness) and less anxiety, depression, and suicide."
The authors of a subsequent study concluded that the influence of religion on health is "largely beneficial", based on a review of related literature.
According to academic James W. Jones, several studies have discovered "positive correlations between religious belief and practice and mental and physical health and longevity."
An analysis of data from the 1998 US General Social Survey, whilst broadly confirming that religious activity was associated with better health and well-being, also suggested that the role of different dimensions of spirituality/religiosity in health is rather more complicated.
The results suggested "that it may not be appropriate to generalize findings about the relationship between spirituality/religiosity and health from one form of spirituality/religiosity to another, across denominations, or to assume effects are uniform for men and women.
Many religions have value frameworks regarding personal behavior meant to guide adherents in determining between right and wrong.
These include the Triple Jems of Jainism, Judaism's Halacha, Islam's Sharia, Catholicism's Canon Law, Buddhism's Eightfold Path, and Zoroastrianism's "good thoughts, good words, and good deeds" concept, among others.
Religion and morality are not synonymous.
Morality does not depend upon religion although this is "an almost automatic assumption."
According to The Westminster Dictionary of Christian Ethics, religion and morality "are to be defined differently and have no definitional connections with each other.
Conceptually and in principle, morality and a religious value system are two distinct kinds of value systems or action guides."
According to global research done by Gallup on people from 145 countries, adherents of all the major world religions who attended religious services in the past week have higher rates of generosity such as donating money, volunteering, and helping a stranger than do their coreligionists who did not attend services (non-attenders).
Even for people who were nonreligious, those who said they attended religious services in the past week exhibited more generous behaviors.
Another global study by Gallup on people from 140 countries showed that highly religious people are more likely to help others in terms of donating money, volunteering, and helping strangers despite them having, on average, lower incomes than those who are less religious or nonreligious.
A comprehensive study by Harvard University professor Robert Putnam found that religious people are more charitable than their irreligious counterparts.
The study revealed that forty percent of worship service attending Americans volunteer regularly to help the poor and elderly as opposed to 15% of Americans who never attend services.
Moreover, religious individuals are more likely than non-religious individuals to volunteer for school and youth programs (36% vs. 15%), a neighborhood or civic group (26% vs. 13%), and for health care (21% vs. 13%).
Other research has shown similar correlations between religiosity and giving.
Religious belief appears to be the strongest predictor of charitable giving.
One study found that average charitable giving in 2000 by religious individuals ($2,210) was over three times that of secular individuals ($642).
Giving to non-religious charities by religious individuals was $88 higher.
Religious individuals are also more likely to volunteer time, donate blood, and give back money when accidentally given too much change.
A 2007 study by the The Barna Group found that "active-faith" individuals (those who had attended a church service in the past week) reported that they had given on average $1,500 in 2006, while "no-faith" individuals reported that they had given on average $200.
"Active-faith" adults claimed to give twice as much to non-church-related charities as "no-faith" individuals claimed to give.
They were also more likely to report that they were registered to vote, that they volunteered, that they personally helped someone who was homeless, and to describe themselves as "active in the community."
Some scientific studies show that the degree of religiosity is generally found to be associated with higher ethical attitudes — for example, surveys suggesting a positive connection between faith and altruism.
Survey research suggests that believers do tend to hold different views than non-believers on a variety of social, ethical and moral questions.
According to a 2003 survey conducted in the United States by The Barna Group, those who described themselves as believers were less likely than those describing themselves as atheists or agnostics to consider the following behaviors morally acceptable: cohabitating with someone of the opposite sex outside of marriage, enjoying sexual fantasies, having an abortion, sexual relationships outside of marriage, gambling, looking at pictures of nudity or explicit sexual behavior, getting drunk, and "having a sexual relationship with someone of the same sex."
A study of 1,170 children aged between 5 and 12 years in six countries (Canada, China, Jordan, Turkey, USA, and South Africa) showed that parents in religious households reported that their children expressed more empathy and sensitivity for justice in everyday life than non-religious parents.
However, the opposite was found in both experiments: where the children played a game involving stickers and a moral sensitivity computerized task.
Based on these two experiments, the authors concluded that the children of more religious parents were less altruistic than the children of non-religious parents.
As religion became a more personal matter in Western culture, discussions of society became more focused on political and scientific meaning, and religious attitudes (dominantly Christian) were increasingly seen as irrelevant for the needs of the European world.
On the political side, Ludwig Feuerbach recast Christian beliefs in light of humanism, paving the way for Karl Marx's famous characterization of religion as "the opium of the people".
Meanwhile, in the scientific community, T.H.
Huxley in 1869 coined the term "agnostic," a term—subsequently adopted by such figures as Robert Ingersoll—that, while directly conflicting with and novel to Christian tradition, is accepted and even embraced in some other religions.
Later, Bertrand Russell told the world Why I Am Not a Christian, which influenced several later authors to discuss their breakaway from their own religious upbringings from Islam to Hinduism.
The terms "atheist" (lack of belief in any gods) and "agnostic" (belief in the unknowability of the existence of gods), though specifically contrary to theistic (e.g.
Christian, Jewish, and Muslim) religious teachings, do not by definition mean the opposite of "religious".
There are religions (including Buddhism and Taoism), in fact, that classify some of their followers as agnostic, atheistic, or nontheistic.
The true opposite of "religious" is the word "irreligious".
Irreligion describes an absence of any religion; antireligion describes an active opposition or aversion toward religions in general.
Some atheists also construct parody religions, for example, the Church of the SubGenius or the Flying Spaghetti Monster, which parodies the equal time argument employed by intelligent design Creationism.
Parody religions may also be considered a post-modern approach to religion.
For instance, in Discordianism, it may be hard to tell if even these "serious" followers are not just taking part in an even bigger joke.
This joke, in turn, may be part of a greater path to enlightenment, and so on ad infinitum.
A study by Lynn et al.
showed "a negative relationship between intelligence and religious belief in the United States and Europe," and a "negative relationship between intelligence and religious belief [...] between nations."
According to Lynn et al., intelligent people are less religious; intelligence elites, such as scientists, are less religious than the average population; children become less religious when they grow older and their cognitive skills get better; and religious beliefs have declined in the twentieths century, with the increase of the average intelligence.
According to Lynn et al., countries with a higher average intelligence have a higher amount people who disbelief in God.
Possible explanations, suggested by Lynn et al., are that intelligent people tend to rely on naturalistic explanations, and tend to question religious dogmas.
Another explanation is that developed countries have more control over nature, and therefore tend to rely less on supernatural agency.
Cuba and Vietnam, (former) communist countries, are anomalies, having a lower average intelligence but a high number of disbelievers, which may be attributed to the communist anti-religious stance.
The United States are also an anomaly, with a higher average intelligence but a low nuber of disbelievers.
However, the Lynn et al.
study has been questioned by Professor Gordon Lynch, director of the Centre for Religion and Contemporary Society from London's Birkbeck College, since the study failed to take into account a complex range of social, economic and historical factors, each of which has been shown to interact with religion and IQ in different ways.
</ref> Artificial Intelligence researcher Randy Olson has noted that the correlation between national religiosity and intelligence is weak.
However, the correlation between wealth and intelligence is stronger and more suited.
He notes that many of the countries with lower intelligence scores are less developed and that countries with 20% atheists or more flat line rather than increase in intelligence since they are developed countries either way.
Religious criticism has a long history, going back at least as far as the 5th century BCE.
During classical times, there were religious critics in ancient Greece, such as Diagoras "the atheist" of Melos, and in the 1st century BCE in Rome, with Titus Lucretius Carus's De Rerum Natura.
During the Middle Ages and continuing into the Renaissance, potential critics of religion were persecuted and largely forced to remain silent.
There were notable critics like Giordano Bruno, who was burned at the stake for disagreeing with religious authority.
In the 17th and 18th century with the Enlightenment, thinkers like David Hume and Voltaire criticized religion.
In the 19th century, Charles Darwin and the theory of evolution led to increased skepticism about religion.
Thomas Huxley, Jeremy Bentham, Karl Marx, Charles Bradlaugh, Robert Ingersol, and Mark Twain were noted 19th-century and early-20th-century critics.
In the 20th century, Bertrand Russell, Siegmund Freud, and others continued religious criticism.
Sam Harris, Daniel Dennett, Richard Dawkins, Victor J. Stenger, and the late Christopher Hitchens were active critics during the late 20th century and early 21st century.
Critics consider religion to be outdated, harmful to the individual (e.g.
brainwashing of children, faith healing, female genital mutilation, circumcision), harmful to society (e.g.
holy wars, terrorism, wasteful distribution of resources), to impede the progress of science, to exert social control, and to encourage immoral acts (e.g.
blood sacrifice, discrimination against homosexuals and women, and certain forms of sexual violence such as marital rape).
A major criticism of many religions is that they require beliefs that are irrational, unscientific, or unreasonable, because religious beliefs and traditions lack scientific or rational foundations.
Some modern-day critics, such as Bryan Caplan, hold that religion lacks utility in human society; they may regard religion as irrational.
Nobel Peace Laureate Shirin Ebadi has spoken out against undemocratic Islamic countries justifying "oppressive acts" in the name of Islam.
Critics like Hector Avalos Regina Schwartz, Christopher Hitchens and Richard Dawkins have argued that religions are inherently violent and harm to society by using violence to promote their goals, in ways that are endorsed and exploited by their leaders.
Byron Bland asserts that one of the most prominent reasons for the "rise of the secular in Western thought" was the reaction against the religious violence of the 16th and 17th centuries.
He asserts that "(t)he secular was a way of living with the religious differences that had produced so much horror.
Under secularity, political entities have a warrant to make decisions independent from the need to enforce particular versions of religious orthodoxy.
Indeed, they may run counter to certain strongly held beliefs if made in the interest of common welfare.
Thus, one of the important goals of the secular is to limit violence."
Anthropologist Jack David Eller asserts that religion is not inherently violent, arguing "religion and violence are clearly compatible, but they are not identical."
He asserts that "violence is neither essential to nor exclusive to religion" and that " virtually every form of religious violence has its nonreligious corollary."
Animal sacrifice is the ritual killing of an animal by religious people to appease or maintain favour with a deity.
Such forms of sacrifice are practised within many religions around the world.
It has been described as barbaric, and has been banned in India.
Hindu religious texts assigned Vaishyas to traditional roles in agriculture and cattle-rearing but over time they came to be landowners, traders and money-lenders.
The Vaishyas, along with members of the Brahmin and Kshatriya varnas, claim dvija status ("twice born", a second or spiritual birth) after sacrament of initiation as in Hindu theology.
Indian traders were widely credited for the spread of Indian culture to regions as far as southeast Asia.
Historically, Vaishyas have been involved in roles other than their traditional pastoralism, trade and commerce.
According to Ram Sharan Sharma, a historian, the Gupta Empire was a Vaishya dynasty that "may have appeared as a reaction against oppressive rulers".
The Vaishya community consist of several jāti or subcastes, notably the Agrahari, Agrawals, Barnwals, Gahois, Kasuadhans, Khandelwals, Lohanas and Maheshwaris of the north; Oswals, Roniaurs, the Arya Vaishyas of Maharahtra, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the Vaishya Vanis of Konkan and Goa, and the Modh Baniyas of the west.
A Shi'ite Anthology was written by Allameh Tabatabaei and translated by William Chittick, State University of New York Press.
ISBN 0-87395-511-0 Created by the Prophet Muhammad and his twelve Imams, the Hadith is an ancient and profoundly influential body of religious texts in Shia Muslim literature, second in importance only to the Holy Koran itself.
Texts on the practical aspects of life and pure metaphysics are included in this first English translations of excerpts from the Hadith.
Especially selected for the Western reader by the renowned Islamic scholar Tabataba'i, the passages from the Hadith shed light on the culture, history, law, and theology of the Shi'ite community and provide direct translations of some of the most famous of Islamic prayers.
"This volume is particularly pertinent at the present moment, when volcanic eruptions and powerful waves of a political nature associated with the name of Islam in general and Shi'ism in particular have made an authentic knowledge of things Islamic imperative, lest ignorance destroy the very foundations of human society and the relations which make discourse between various nations and religious communities possible.
"— Allamah Sayyed Muhammad Husayn Tabataba'i is the author of many studies in Islamic philosophy.
His book Shia Islam, edited by Seyyed Hossein Nasr, was also published by the State University of New York Press.
Dr Patrick James Fahey O.S.A.
(order of St Augustine), is an Augustinian friar, liturgist, musician and Prior Provincial of the Australian Province of the Order of St Augustine (1997- 2006).
He is a graduate of Villanova University (P.A.
), The Catholic University of America (D.C.) and the Pontifical Institute of Liturgy (Rome).
From 1980 in Rome, he lectured in Liturgy and Sacramental theology at the Patristic Institute, at Regina Mundi (an Institute of the Gregorian University) and the Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas (Angelicum).
He subsequently lectured in Liturgical and Sacramental Theology at the Catholic Theology and Religious Education at the Australian Catholic University (N.S.W.).
A talented liturgical musician, he founded the boys' choir at St. Augustine's College, Brookvale N.S.W.
Australia in the 1960s.
He was also Musical Director and Master of the Choristers of Brisbane's St Stephen's Roman Catholic cathedral from 1977.
In the same year he was appointed first Director of Brisbane's Pastoral Liturgical Institute.
While teaching in Rome, he contributed articles on The Mass, Blessings and Sacramental Seal of Confession in the Dizionario Patristico e delle Antichita` Cristiane (Institum Patristicum Augustinianum, RomaL Editrice Marietti, dir.
He is now retired and living in the Parich of North Harbour, Sydney, Australia.
The South African Charter of Religious Rights and Freedoms (SACRRF) is a charter of rights drawn up by South African religious and civil organisations which is intended to define the religious freedoms, rights and responsibilities of South African citizens.
The aim of the drafters of the Charter is for it to be approved by Parliament in terms of section 234 of the Constitution of South Africa.
The SACRRF details what the legal and civil manifestations of the right to freedom of religion would be for individuals, groups and official organisations in South Africa.
It expresses what freedom of religion means to those of religious belief and religious organisations and the daily freedoms, rights and responsibilities associated with this right.
These include the right to gather to observe religious belief, freedom of expression regarding religion, the right of citizens to make choices according to their convictions, the right to change their faith, the right to be educated in their religion, the right to educate their children in accordance with their philosophical and religious convictions and the right to refuse to perform certain duties or assist in activities that violate their religious beliefs.
The right to freedom of religion is enshrined in the Constitution of South Africa.
Chapter 2 of the Constitution of South Africa, containing the Bill of Rights, states that everyone has the right to freedom of religion, belief and opinion.
Section 9, the equality clause, prohibits unfair discrimination on various grounds including religion.
Section 15 allows religious observances in state and state-aided institutions, provided they follow public authority rules, they are conducted on an equitable basis and attendance is free and voluntary, and also provides for the recognition of religious legal systems and marriages that are not inconsistent with the Constitution.
Section 31 protects the right of persons belonging to a religious community to practise their religion together with other members of that community and form voluntary religious associations.
Various other provisions of the Constitution relate to religion and religious freedom.
Sections 185 and 186 provide for a commission for the promotion and protection of the rights of cultural, religious and linguistic communities.
In addition, human rights such as the right to human dignity, the right to freedom of expression and the right to freedom of association relate indirectly to the protection of religious freedom.
The right to freedom of expression does not extend to hate speech based on various grounds including religion.
Section 234 of the Constitution makes allowance for charters of rights consistent with the Constitution to be adopted by Parliament.
Section 234 states "In order to deepen the culture of democracy established by the Constitution, Parliament may adopt Charters of Rights consistent with the provisions of the Constitution".
The Service Charter for Victims of Crime in South Africa was approved by Parliament in accordance with this constitutional provision on 1 December 2004.
In 1990 Judge Albie Sachs, Justice of the Constitutional Court of South Africa from 1994 to 2009, wrote: The need to draft a charter that would make clear what freedom of religion entails for the people of South Africa, by the people of South Africa, was realised after conferences on the relationship between religion and the state and freedom of religion at the University of Stellenbosch in post-apartheid South Africa.
The Charter was drafted over a period of several years by a group of academics, religious scholars, religious leaders, statutory commissioners and international legal experts in consultation with all major religious, human rights and media groups in South Africa.
The first draft of the Charter was unveiled at a gathering of religious groups on 14 February 2008.
Among those present were representatives of Christian denominations, African independent churches, those of Jewish and Islamic faith, the SA Tamil Federation and academic institutions and statutory bodies.
The Continuation Committee was appointed by those present at this gathering to complete the process of finalising the Charter.
Amendments were made to the document by the Continuation Committee and it was developed through suggestions and input from the wide community of leaders and groups among which it was circulated prior to its public endorsement on 21 October 2010.
The Charter has been made available in six of South Africa's official languages, namely English, Afrikaans, isiXhosa, isiZulu, Sepedi and Tswana.
The members of the Continuation Committee per the final document, as amended on 6 August 2009 and 1 October 2009, were: P Coertzen (Chairperson), I Benson, S Boshoff, J Creer, D Erekson, Rabbi Greens, A Knoetze, C Landman, W Langeveldt, E Malherbe, N Mndende, A Sedick and K Thompson.
The Charter endorsement is worded as follows: The Charter was first signed at a public endorsement ceremony in Johannesburg on 21 October 2010 in the presence of signatories and keynote speaker Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke and signatories continue to be added to the open document.
Moseneke welcomed the initiative by civil society but did not voice a personal opinion about the Charter or endorse it.
In his keynote speech, Moseneke stated: The Charter has been endorsed by signatories from all major religions in South Africa and the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities.
Signatories include representatives of religious groups and organisations, human rights organisations, legal and academic entities and media bodies.
By the First Annual General Meeting of the South African Council for the Protection and Promotion of Religious Rights and Freedoms in 2011, 67 religious organisations including numerous Christian denominations representing approximately 8–10 million South Africans had signed the Charter.
After the public endorsement of the Charter, the South African Council for the Protection and Promotion of Religious Rights and Freedoms was established to oversee the process of the Charter being formally enacted into South African law by Parliament.
A Steering Committee convened by Prof Pieter Coertzen was also appointed to prepare a constitution for the Council.
The members of the Council, some of whom previously served on the Continuation Committee, are: Specialists appointed to the Steering Committee are: The Charter has been criticised by Pagan South Africans and non-religious South Africans.
Members of the South African Pagan Council expressed concern that the Charter would be used to enforce religious discrimination in society, for example by providing the unlimited right to refuse service to South African citizens on the grounds of religious conscience, and would result in state-subsidized religious education in a secular state.
Jacques Rousseau of the Free Society Institute considers existing legislative protection of religious beliefs to be clear and adequate and expressed concern about the Charter allowing discrimination against the non-religious and containing undue limitation on freedom of speech over and above the hate speech clause in the Constitution.
Rossouw also expressed concern about vague wording open to interpretation in a document intended to provide clarity about constitutional rights.
According to the Freedom from Religion South Africa action group, an association of freethinkers, atheists, sceptics and agnostics committed to a secular state, the Charter would undermine secularity, democracy and freedom in South Africa.
The group is concerned that, instead of advancing freedom of religion, the Charter would advance religion and inhibit the religious freedom of those in minority religions and the non-religious.
The group is concerned that the Charter seeks to entrench religion in educational and state institutions using state powers and state funds.
The group has drafted and proposed its own South African Charter of the Freedom from Religion in opposition to the Charter.
The Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary (SDATS) is the seminary located at Andrews University in Michigan, the Seventh-day Adventist Church's flagship university.
Since 1970 the SDATS has been accredited by the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada.It is a part of the Seventh-day Adventist education system, the world's second largest Christian school system.
The earliest ministerial education in the Seventh-day Adventist Church was simple conversion of ministers from other denominations and an apprentice-type of arrangement where aspiring ministers worked along those of more experience.
Later, ministerial institutes were incorporated into the Battle Creek College (now Andrews University) curriculum.
By the 1910s Arthur G. Daniells began to make calls for more ministerial education.
These attempts were not realized until the beginning of the "Advanced Bible Training School" on the campus of Pacific Union College in 1934.
The fledgling Seminary moved to the campus of Washington Missionary College (now Washington Adventist University) in 1937 and renamed the Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary.
The Seminary consists of seven departments: Christian Ministry, Church History, Discipleship and Religious Education, New Testament, Old Testament, Theology and Christian Philosophy, and World Mission.
A number of study centers and institutes are also attached to the Seminary: Center for Youth Evangelism (CYE), North American Division Evangelism Institute (NADEI), Institute for Jewish-Christian Study, Institute of Archaeology, the Institute of World Mission, Christian Leadership Center, and the Greek Manuscript Research Center.
In 1961 the Seminary had an enrollment of 129.
By 2007 the Seminary's enrollment had increased to 768 students.
The Seminary offers professional and academic programs.
Professional programs include the Master of Divinity, the MA in Pastoral Ministry, the MA in Youth and Young Adult Ministry, the Doctor of Ministry, and the Doctor of Missiology.
Academic programs include the MA (Religion), the MA (Religious Education), the Doctor of Philosophy (Religion), the Doctor of Philosophy (Religious Education), the Doctor of Philosophy (Biblical and Ancient Near Eastern Archaeology), and the Doctor of Theology.
Three of these programs are offered at various sites in the U.S. and overseas (MA (Religion), MA in Pastoral Ministry, and the DMin).
As of 2010, its total enrollment is over 1200 students.
In 1970 the Seminary opened up an archeological museum.
The core collection of several hundred items came from Siegfried H. Horn and other donors.
The museum was named in honor of Dr. Horn in 1979.
The Advanced Bible School (1934-1937) was the forerunner of the Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary.
In addition, the SDA Theological Seminary became part of Potomac University from 1957-1960, which in 1960 merged with Emmanuel Missionary College, in Berrien Springs, Michigan, to become Andrews University.
In re Summers, , is a 5-to-4 ruling by the United States Supreme Court which held that the First and Fourtheenth amendment freedoms of a conscientious objector were not infringed when a state bar association declined to admit him to the practice of law.
The Illinois Constitution required citizens to serve in the state militia in time of war, and all lawyers admitted to the bar were required to uphold the state constitution.
Petitioner Clyde Summers could not uphold that constitutional requirement due to his religious beliefs, and the Supreme Court upheld the denial of his license of practice.
Clyde Summers entered the University of Illinois at the age of 16, earning a Bachelor of Science in accounting in 1939 and a J.D.
(cum laude) in 1942.
While an undergraduate and law student, Summers became active in the Methodist Student Movement and a believer in the social gospel.
The United States entered World War II on December 8, 1941.
Summers, opposed to the use of force, declared himself a conscientious objector.
In 1942, Summers sought admission to the Illinois State Bar Association, a prerequisite to the practice of law in the state of Illinois.
The bar association admitted he was of high moral character and exhibited excellent knowledge of the law, but in January 1943 denied him admission due to his conscientious objector status.
Article 12 of the Illinois constitution required citizens to serve in the state militia in time of war, and all lawyers admitted to the bar were required to uphold the state constitution.
However, Illinois had not drafted citizens into its state militia since 1864, Article 12 prohibited the drafting of conscientious objectors into the militia during peacetime, and the article permitted conscientious objectors to engage in work of significant national importance during war in lieu of military service.
Nonetheless, Summers could not uphold the relevant constitutional requirement due to his religious beliefs, the bar association said.
With representation by the American Civil Liberties Union, Summers sued, alleging that the bar association's actions had infringed his First and Fourteenth amendment rights.
The Supreme Court of Illinois held that 1) The courts had no jurisdiction over the issue, and thus no "case or controversy" existed under Article Three of the Constitution; and 2) The bar association had not discriminated against Summers on the basis of his religion but rather on the basis of his ability to uphold the military service section of the Illinois state constitution.
Summers appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, and which granted certiorari.
Associate Justice Stanley Forman Reed wrote the decision for the majority, joined by Chief Justice Stone and Associate Justices Frankfurter, Jackson, and Burton.
Reed first reviewed the case proceedings.
Regarding the "case or controversy" aspect of the issue, Reed concluded that the admission of a lawyer to the bar was "a ministerial act which is performed by virtue of the judicial power, such as the appointment of a clerk or bailiff or the specification of the requirements of eligibility or the course of study for applicants for admission to the bar, rather than a judicial proceeding."
However, under Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 22 U.S. 738 (1824), because the judicial power is invoked, this allows a case to arise.
But was there a controversy?
For a controversy to exist, Reed said, it must follow the rule laid down in Muskrat v. United States, 219 U.S. 346 (1911), which held that there must be actual disagreement and merely a hypothetical or potential disagreement.
The record in In re Summers was incomplete and the response for petition of certiorari from the Illinois Supreme Court was oddly formed, leaving the issue of a controversy muddied.
But the majority concluded that since the bar association committee had formed at the request of the Illinois Supreme Court and that court had acted on Summers' petition for relief, a true controversy existed.
Without discussion, Reed furthermore asserted that denial of the right to practice law is a controversy, and a denial of that right by a state court triggers federal jurisdiction under Article Three of the U.S. Constitution.
In addressing Summers' conscientious objector claim, Reed denigrated Summers as a "religionist."
Reed next asserted that the Fourteenth Amendment applied only to federal rights, not to purely state-guaranteed rights such as the right to practice law.
But were Summers' First Amendment rights implicated?
The majority concluded they were not.
Reed asserted that the Illinois Supreme Court had not discriminated against Summers on the basis of his religion, but rather on his ability to uphold the Illinois Constitution's requirement that he serve in the militia: Reed reviewed Summers' beliefs, noting that he had been certified a conscientious objector by the federal government, his beliefs were religiously founded, and his beliefs were sincerely held.
But the Illinois Supreme Court had held that Summers would not serve in the militia if drafted, a claim which Summers had failed to challenge.
But these pacifist religious beliefs were not protected by the First Amendment, Reed said.
Relying on Hamilton v. Regents of the University of California, 293 U.S. 245 (1934), he declared conscientious objection a "grace of Congressional recognition" and noted that the state of Illinois recognized no such rights.
The judgment of the Illinois Supreme Court was affirmed.
Associate Justice Hugo Black wrote a dissent, in which he was joined by Associate Justices Douglas, Murphy, and Rutledge.
Black bluntly phrased the issue in terms starkly different than the majority's: "It has denied him a license on the ground that his present religious beliefs disqualify him for membership in the legal profession."
Black reviewed Summers' qualifications for the bar, which were exceptionally high and otherwise undisputed.
He also reviewed the foundation for Summers' deep religious convictions and opposition to the use of force.
Black found the majority's distinction between upholding the Illinois Constitution and discriminating against Summers' religious beliefs "circuitous".
The Illinois Constitution, he said, would discriminate against entire religions, and could lead to the inescapable conclusion that the state could bar a conscientious objector from a wide range of constitutional protections merely by refusing to grant these protections to nonresistors.
Black concluded that the Illinois Constitution's requirement was essentially a "test oath," an oath designed to test one's loyalty before any illegal act had actually occurred.
But, relying on Cummings v. Missouri, 71 U.S. 277 (1867) and Ex parte Garland, 71 U.S. 333 (1866), Black said that test oaths were anathema to the Constitution.
"This feeling was made manifest in Article VI of the Constitution, which provides that 'no religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States.'"
Illinois has the power to draft its citizens, and to punish them for refusing to serve in its militia, Black said, but it does not have the right to assume beforehand that Summers would take the bar association oath in bad faith and fail to fulfill it at some indeterminate time in the future.
This thinking had been rejected by Associate Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. in his dissent in United States v. Schwimmer, 279 U.S. 644 (1929), and by Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes in his dissent in United States v. Macintosh, 283 U.S. 605 (1931), and Black embraced their views.
Finally, Black noted that Illinois had not imposed a draft since 1864 and that the majority was engaging in mere speculation about imposing one in the future.
There was no violation of the oath, and no actual inability to uphold the state constitution, Black concluded.
"< <nowiki>[T]</nowiki>he probability that Illinois would ever call the petitioner to serve in a war has little more reality than an imaginary quantity in mathematics.
I cannot agree that a state can lawfully bar from a semi-public position a well qualified man of good character solely because he entertains a religious belief which might prompt him at some time in the future to violate a law which has not yet been and may never be enacted."
Black would have overturned the decision of the Illinois Supreme Court.
Chief Justice Stone cast the deciding vote in the case.
Although his vote contradicted the vast majority of his previous "freedom of religion" votes and decisions, Stone's reasons for deciding against free exercise in this case are not recorded.
The Court's ruling in In re Summers has been sharply criticized.
Despite Justice Reed's stated respect for Summers' religious beliefs, Reed denigrated him as a "religionist" (someone whose beliefs are not thought through and imfirmly held).
Reed also imposed his own theology on the Christian Bible, openly criticizing Summers for misinterpreting its tenets and for practicing (rather than merely reading) it.
One historian has said that "Justice Stanley Reed's majority opinion <nowiki>[is]</nowiki> lacking in anay analysis of the serious constitutional issue involved".
A legal scholar has said that Reed's decision is "merely" that Illinois had the right to interpret its oath however it chose.
The dissents of Holmes in Schwimmer, Hughes in Macintosh, and Black in In re Summers have since become the majority view of the Supreme Court.
Schwimmer and Macintosh were overruled in Girouard v. United States, 328 U.S. 61 (1946).
But even though the cases which formed the basis of the decision in In re Summers were disavowed, the Court reaffirmed Summers in 1950 in American Communications Association v. Douds, 339 U.S. 382 (1950).
In re Summers became the basis for the Court to uphold a number of loyalty oath cases during the Cold War.
Summers later was admitted to the New York State Bar Association and became one of the most respected legal educators in the United States.
He was highly influential in the field of labor law, and was considered the nation's leading expert on union democracy.
"What Louis Brandeis was to the field of privacy law, Clyde Summers is to the field of union democracy," wrote Widener University School of Law professor Michael J. Goldberg in the summer of 2010.
"Summers, like Brandeis, provided the theoretical foundation for an important new field of law."
The Wayland Historic District is a predominantly residential historic district on the east side of Providence, Rhode Island.
It is a large area, covering about , bounded roughly on the north by Everett and Laurel Avenues, on the east by Blackstone Boulevard and Butler Avenue, on the west by Arlington Avenue, and on the south by Angell and South Angell Streets.
This area, which was in the 19th century part of the Moses Brown farm, was platted for development in 1891, with most of the construction taking place in the early decades of the 20th century.
Most of the residential properties in the district are single-family houses, typically built in revival styles popular at the time.
They are set on similarly-sized lots with fairly uniform setbacks, and were typically built without garages (which were often added later).
There are a number of two-family houses, and a small number of apartment buildings, most of which are found on the arterial roads of the area.
There are several religious buildings, including several churches; the most architecturally distinctive religious building is the Jewish Temple Beth El, built 1951-54.
The district was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2005.
In North Korea, the Constitution provides for "freedom of religious belief"; the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is a secular state.
The US and South Korean governments are the main sources of information of religion in North Korea.
North Korea is officially an atheist state, and government policy continues to interfere with the individual's ability to choose and to manifest his or her religious belief.
The regime continues to repress the religious activities of unauthorized religious groups.
Recent refugee, defector, missionary, and nongovernmental organizations (NGO) reports indicate that religious persons engaging in proselytizing in the country, those who have ties to overseas evangelical groups operating across the border in the People's Republic of China, and specifically, those repatriated from China and found to have been in contact with foreigners or missionaries, have been arrested and subjected to harsh penalties.
Refugees and defectors continued to allege that they witnessed the arrests and execution of members of underground Christian churches by the regime in prior years.
Due to the country's inaccessibility and the inability to gain timely information, the continuation of this activity remains difficult to verify.
Traditionally, religion in North Korea primarily consists of Buddhism and Confucianism and to a lesser extent Korean shamanism and syncretic Chondogyo.
Since the arrival of Europeans in the 18th century, there is also a Christian minority.
According to the Central Intelligence Agency, since the rise of Stalinism, free religious activities no longer exist as the government sponsors religious groups only to create an illusion of religious freedom.
North Korea sees organised religious activity as a potential challenge to the leadership.
The Government deals harshly with all opponents, including those who engage in religious practices deemed unacceptable by the regime.
An estimated 150,000 to 200,000 persons were believed to be held in political prison camps (Kwalliso) in remote areas, many for religious and political reasons.
In March 2006 the Government reportedly sentenced Son Jong-nam to death for espionage.
However, NGOs claimed that the sentence against Son was based on his contacts with Christian groups in China, his proselytizing activities, and alleged sharing of information with his brother in South Korea.
Son's brother reported that information indicated that Son was alive as of spring 2007.
Because the country effectively bars outside observers from investigating such reports, it was not possible to verify the Government's claims about Son Jong-nam's activities or determine whether he had been executed.
A fellow inmate of the Pyongyang prison where Son was held states that he died there in December 2008.
A South Korean newspaper reported 80 people were publicly executed in North Korea in November 2013, some for possessing a Bible, while a crowd was herded into a stadium in one city and forced to watch the deaths from machine gun fire.
The JoongAng Ilbo reported the executions were carried out in seven cities on Nov. 3, 2013.
Christians have faced intense persecution in North Korea, which is ranked as the worst country in the world in terms of Christian persecution by watchdog group Open Doors.
Indoctrination is the process of forcibly inculcating ideas, attitudes, cognitive strategies or a professional methodology (see doctrine) by coercion.
Conspiring institutions such as police and mental hospitals have been widely used as a modus operandi of indoctrinators.
Some distinguish indoctrination from education, claiming that the indoctrinated person is expected not to question or critically examine the doctrine they have learned.
As such the term may be used pejoratively or as a buzz word, often in the context of political opinions, theology, religious dogma or anti-religious convictions.
The term is closely linked to socialization; however, in common discourse, indoctrination is sometimes associated with negative connotations, while socialization refers to cultural or educational learning.
Religious indoctrination, the original sense of indoctrination, refers to a process of imparting doctrine in an authoritative way, as in catechism.
Most religious groups among the revealed religions instruct new members in the principles of the religion; this is now not usually referred to as indoctrination by the religions themselves, in part because of the negative connotations the word has acquired.
Mystery religions require a period of indoctrination before granting access to esoteric knowledge.
As a pejorative term, indoctrination implies forcibly or coercively causing people to act and think on the basis of a certain ideology.
Some secular critics believe that all religions indoctrinate their adherents, as children, and the accusation is made in the case of religious extremism.
Sects such as Scientology use personality tests and peer pressures to indoctrinate new members.
Some religions have commitment ceremonies for children 13 years and younger, such as Bar Mitzvah, Confirmation, and Shichi-Go-San.
In Buddhism, temple boys are encouraged to follow the faith while young.
Critics of religion, such as Richard Dawkins, maintain that the children of religious parents are often unfairly indoctrinated.
However, indoctrination can occur in non-religious contexts as well.
For example, in the 20th century, the former People's Socialist Republic of Albania and the former USSR instituted programs of government-sponsored atheistic indoctrination in order to promote state atheism, specifically Marxist–Leninist atheism, within their citizenry.
Sabrina P. Ramet, a professor of political science, documented that "from kindergarten onward children [were] indoctrinated with an aggressive form of atheism" and "to denounce parents who follow religious practices at home."
However, after the death of Albania's leader, Enver Hoxha in 1985, his successor, Ramiz Alia, adopted a relatively tolerant stance toward religious practice, referring to it as "a personal and family matter."
Émigré clergymen were permitted to reenter the country in 1988 and officiate at religious services.
Mother Teresa, an ethnic Albanian, visited Tirana in 1989, where she was received by the foreign minister and by Hoxha's widow.
In December 1990, the ban on religious observance was officially lifted, in time to allow thousands of Christians to attend Christmas services (see Freedom of religion in Albania).
Similarly, in the former Soviet Union, "science education [in] Soviet schools [was] used as a vehicle for atheistic indoctrination", with teachers being instructed to prepare their course "so as to conduct anti-religious educations at all times," in order to comport with state-sanctioned Marxist-Leninist values.
However, in 1997, several years after the fall of the Soviet Union, the Russian government passed a law recognizing religion as being important to Russian history with Orthodox Christianity (Russian: Православие Pravoslaviye), Russia's traditional and largest religion, declared a part of Russia's "historical heritage."
The initial psychological preparation of soldiers during training is referred to (non-pejoratively) as indoctrination.
In the field of information security, indoctrination is the initial briefing and instructions given before a person is granted access to secret information.
Noam Chomsky remarks, "For those who stubbornly seek freedom around the world, there can be no more urgent task than to come to understand the mechanisms and practices of indoctrination.
These are easy to perceive in the totalitarian societies, much less so in the propaganda system to which we are subjected and in which all too often we serve as unwilling or unwitting instruments."
The far future, here defined as the time beyond the 10th millennium, has been cited many times in religious texts and theology.
Discussions of the far future are of major import both in theology and folk religion.
Many Christian authors have welcomed the scientific theory of the heat death of the universe as the ultimate fate of the universe as it was first proposed, while atheists and materialists back then commonly opposed the theory in favour of the idea that the universe and life in it would exist eternally.
Nonetheless, in modern days, nontheists have largely come to accept the theory, while Christian eschatology is in conflict with the idea that entropy will be the predominant factor in determining the state of the far future, instead predicting God's creation of the New Earth and its existence into the far future.
According to Mahayana Buddhism, an emanation of the Buddha-nature will appear in the material world in the far future.
In Hinduism, Brahma, the creator god, will live for 100 years, with each day of these years made up of two kalpas, and each kalpa lasting 4.32 billion human years.
The lifetime of Brahma, and thus the universe, is therefore predicted to last 311 trillion years.
Mayan religion often cites incredibly long time periods.
Stela 1 at Coba marks the date of creation as in the Mesoamerican Long Count.
According to Linda Schele, these 13s represent "the starting point of a huge odometer of time", with each acting as a zero and resetting to 1 as the numbers increase.
Thus this inscription anticipates the current universe lasting at least 20<sup>21</sup>×13×360 days, or roughly 2.687×10<sup>28</sup> years; a time span equal to 2 quintillion times the age of the universe as determined by cosmologists.
Others have suggested, however, that this date marks creation as having occurred after that time span.
Maulana Syed Mohammad Husaini (1931-2013) was a senior Shia cleric and most prominent religious scholar of India.
He was belonging to the renowned Qazi family of Banaras.
He provided his valuable services to the Islam specially to the Shia community since an early age till last days of his life.
Maulana Husaini started his religious education at Jamia-e-Imania, and completed it at Jamiul-Uloom Jawadia, obtaining the high degree of Fakhr-ul-Afazil.
He subsequently contributed to disseminating Islamic education and the teaching of Shia Theology.
He achieved the re-establishment of the Jamia-e-Imania Banaras school in 1983.
The Bachelor of Religious Education, or BRE, or B.R.E.
is an undergraduate degree.
It offers a broad education in the areas of scripture and theology.
It differs from a BA degree in that approximately three-quarters of the program is invested in studies outside of the liberal arts.
This degree is primarily offered by institutions of a Christian worldview, though not exclusively so.
Typically, a BRE degree will be sought by those individuals who are interested in serving as pastors, missionaries, evangelists, youth leaders, worship coordinators, or in other forms of local church ministry.
Alternatively, some BRE graduates go on to careers in the fields of business, counseling, education, law, media, and writing.
Thomas Cooper (March 20, 1805 – July 15, 1892) was a poet and one of the leading Chartists.
He wrote poetry, notably the 944 stanzas of his prison-rhyme the Purgatory of Suicides (1845), novels and, in later life, religious texts.
An autodidact shoemaker, preacher, schoolmaster and journalist before he became a Chartist in 1840, Cooper was a passionate, determined and fiery man.
Cooper was born in Leicester, and apprenticed to a shoemaker.
In spite of hardships and difficulties, he educated himself, and at 23 was a schoolmaster.
After journalistic work in Lincoln and London he joined the staff of the Leicestershire Mercury in 1840.
Leicester, under his leadership, became a Chartist stronghold—with its own journals, e.g.
The Commonwealthman, and adult school.
He became a leader and lecturer among the Chartists, and in 1842 was imprisoned in Stafford gaol for two years after the riots in the potteries, where he wrote his Purgatory of Suicides, a political epic.
Cooper abandoned full-time radicalism on his release.
At the same time he adopted sceptical views, which he continued to hold until 1855, when he became a Christian, joined the Baptists, and was a preacher among them.
Though still calling himself a Chartist, he sought to earn a living and a reputation as a writer.
In addition to his poems he wrote several novels.
However, novels like Alderman Ralph (1853) failed on both those counts.
Having abandoned his religious beliefs at the time of his imprisonment, Cooper was dramatically re-converted to Christianity in 1855.
He spent the next thirty years as a lecturer in defence of Christianity, refuting the evolutionary theories of Darwin.
In his latter years he settled down into an old-fashioned Radical.
His friends in 1867 raised an annuity for him, and in the last year of his life he received a government pension.
He died at Lincoln on 15 July 1892.
He married in 1834, but his wife died in 1880.
Somewhat impulsive, he was an honest and sincere man.
His autobiography (1872) is regarded as a minor Victorian classic.
Thomas Cooper was buried in Lincoln.
In addition to the various papers with which he was connected, Cooper in 1850 conducted Cooper's Journal, but only a few issues appeared.
His chief works are :
Chamling is one of the Kiranti languages spoken by the Kiranti and Rai peoples of eastern Nepal.
Alternate renderings and names include Chamling, Chamlinge Rai and Rodong (which means "Kirati").
It is closely related to the Bantawa (some Bantawa-speaking communities call their language "Camling") and Puma languages of the Kirati language family in eastern Nepal, and it belongs to the broader Sino-Tibetan language family.
The Chamling language is one of the languages of the ancient Kiranti culture, which existed well before the arrival of Vedic period civilisation in South Asia.
Important versions of the Mundhum &mdash; the main religious text forming the religious foundation of the Kirant Mundhum religion and the cultural heritage of the various Kirati people &mdash; are composed in Camling; such versions are distinctive to the Camling-speaking tribes and a guide to their distinctive religious practices and cultural identity.
The Chamling language is used by small communities in the Sagarmatha Zone, Khotang District, Bhojpur District and scattered areas in Udayapur District and a few more districts of eastern Nepal, the southeastern neighbour Indian state of Sikkim, the hill city of Darjeeling in the Indian state of West Bengal and the kingdom of Bhutan.
Despite its geographic prevalence, the actual number of Chamling speakers is estimated to be 10,000, spread across small tribes and villages.
Many members of the Chamling ethnic and tribal communities are no longer fluent in the Chamling language, which is taught only in remote areas in the Udayapur District.
Like Bantawa, Chamling is an endangered language.
Many people in these areas speak a variety of Chamling that is mixed with the Nepali language, which is the official language of Nepal.
Most Chamling-speaking people are Hindus or practitioners of Kiranti Mundhum.
Uta Ranke-Heinemann (born 2 October 1927) is a German theologian, academic and author.
She holds the (nondenominational) chair of History of Religion at the University of Duisburg-Essen in Essen, her birthplace.
Ranke-Heinemann's parents were Protestants (Calvinistic).
Her father Gustav Heinemann was an SPD politician and president of Germany 1969–74.
Her mother Hilda Heinemann, a descendant of Albrecht von Haller studied theology under Rudolf Bultmann at the University of Marburg.
In 1944, Hilda brought Uta to Bultmann as a refugee after Essen was heavily bombed.
Uta lived with Rudolf Bultmann's family until the end of the war 1945.
She was the first and only girl at the Burggymnasium Essen, which was founded in the 9th century and passed her final examinations (Abitur) "with distinction", the only one of her class.
"Abitur with distinction" was rare at the time, the last one at Burggymnasium happened 30 years before.
After nearly seven years' study of Protestant theology in Bonn, Basel, Oxford, and Montpellier, she converted to Catholicism in 1953 and was promoted to doctor in 1954 in Munich.
Before 1954 no doctorate in Catholic theology for women was possible.
She had been a classmate of Joseph Ratzinger, when they were doctoral students together at the University of Munich in 1953/54.
In 1970, she became the first woman in the world to hold a chair of Catholic theology at the University of Essen.
She lost her chair in 1987 after denying the virgin birth.
She considered herself excommunicated (latae sententiae) according to can.
1364 §1 CIC and can.
751 CIC for doubting an article of Catholic faith (the virgin birth), but no explicit excommunication (ferendae sententiae) was pronounced against her.
Since then she held a chair of the history of religion until her retirement.
In 1999, to protest against the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia, she entered the German presidential election as a candidate of the left-wing PDS, running against her niece's husband, Johannes Rau, who was elected in the end.
After the death of her husband 9.11.2001 she declared her "Departure from traditional Christianity" — though not from Jesus, who said "Blessed are the peacemakers".
She added her thoughts about finding her beloved husband after her death to her book "Putting Away Childish Things".
Rudolf Bultmann, René Descartes and Immanuel Kant showed her how to be a Christian and to hope for eternal life without sacrifice of her intellect.
Her sevenfold negative creed is the following:
Nikola Krajačević Sartorius or Mikula Krajačević (1582-1653) was a Jesuit Catholic priest, missionary and prominent person of Counter-reformation movement in Habsburg Slavonia.
Krajačević was born in a family whose members were military officers at Habsburg Military Frontier against the Ottomans.
In his early life he was military officer.
Krajačević completed his education in Graz, Brno, Rome and Eberndorf and had successful career in Catholic church in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Zagreb reaching positions of teacher, canon and archdeacon.
He published at least two books in which he translated religious texts to "Slovenski" language of Kajkavian dialect.
To promote religious poems and make them more acceptable to population he replaced or adopted texts of folk poems with texts of religious poems.
Krajačević's father Vuk was Habsburg military officer at Military Frontier.
Krajačević was also military officer at the beginning of his adult life and even participated in battles against the Ottomans.
According to some views, after Krajačević left military service he studied philosophy in Graz and theology probably in Rome.
In 1612 Krajačević returned to Zagreb and began his career as Catholic priest.
By 1614 Krajačević reached positions of the canon in Zagreb and archdeacon in Čazma.
In 1615 he joined Jesuits and studied in Brno for a year and for two years in Eberndorf.
Krajačević is also referred to as Sartorius, which was his Latinized name.
Krajačević was a teacher at the Jesuit college in Zagreb.
Among his students was Juraj Križanić.
Krajačević referred to the Kajkavian as Slovenski language to differentiate it from Čakavian and Štokavian to which he referred as Horvatski.
Miroslav Vanino was one of main researchers of Krajačević's life and works.
He believes that Krajačević published at least one of his works before 1629.
Since 1640 Krajačević authored two books: the Prayer Book and Saint Evangelions.
Krajačević published Prayer Book ("Molitvene knjižice Kristušovem vernei slovenskoga jezika, pristojne i hasnovite") in 1640 in Požun on Kajkavian.
Although this work was anonymous publication at the beginning of the 20th century it was proven to be authored by Krajačević.
In his works Krajačević wanted to make spiritual texts more acceptable to the common public and published them together with adapted folk poetry, which he considered filthy and inappropriate.
Sometimes he would adopt or replace text of folk poems with religious texts expecting that religious texts will gradually be accepted and sang by population.
Krajačić's Saint Evangelions were published by Petar Petretić who wrote its prologue in Graz in 1651.
In this book Krajačić introduced orthographic rephorm which was later both praised and criticized.
It was praised by Pavao Ritter Vitezović, who mistakenly attributed it to Petretić who only published the book.
On the other hand, Ljudevit Gaj heavily criticized it, also mistakenly attributing it to Petretić.
According to some authors, Saint Evangelions were authored by multiple different authors whose texts Krajačević compiled and edited.
Krajačević's works widespread also in the Slovene regions, primarily in the Prekmurje and influence on the Prekmurian language.
Krajačević's life work is largely inspire the works of Miklós Küzmics.
Tewar, sometimes referred to as Tiaur or Teur, is a village  in the Mohali District (previously Rupnagar District) of the state of Punjab, India.
According to the 2011 Census, the population of the village is about 4500.
The village is situated about 7-8 kilometers east on Kharar-Kurali stretch of NH 21.
The village is said to be most developed and bigger than other villages in the area.
Tewar is the market hub among the neighboring villages viz.
Radiala, Jakar Majra, Bhajauli, Ghataur, Palheri, Rurkee kham, Abheypur etc.
.
Its market comprises medical stores, apparel stores, electronic stores, electrical stores and general stores.
The village has one government sr sec school and 3 private schools and also one computer center.
The village has one gramin bank, post office and a verka milk dairy.
The village has rich religious places: 1 historical gurudwara sahib named GURUDWARA BHANDARA SAHIB which has religious beliefs that guru gobind singh ji visited that place where gurudwara sahib is built.
Village has 2 more gurudwara and 3 Hindu temples and a mosque.
United States v. Ballard, 322 U.S. 78 (1944), was an appeal of the conviction of two leaders of the new religious "I AM" Activity movement for fraudulently seeking and collecting donations on the basis of religious claims that the defendants themselves did not believe.
The United States Supreme Court held that the question of whether the defendants' claims about their religious experiences were actually true should not have been submitted to a jury.
The Court arrived at this conclusion in part because the "freedom of religious belief... embraces the right to maintain theories of life and of death and of the hereafter which are rank heresy to followers of the orthodox faiths."
However, the Court did not address the issue of whether the sincerity of the defendants' beliefs was a proper question for the jury.
Justice Robert H. Jackson, dissenting, would have gone even farther, suggesting that the entire case should be dismissed for coming too close to being an investigation into the truth of a religious conviction.
He would have held unconstitutional a jury determination of whether the defendants' religious beliefs were sincere, as well as whether they were true.
After Guy Ballard's death, his wife and son were indicted for 18 counts of fraud.
The indictment charged that the Ballards fraudulently collected over $3 million from their followers on the basis of religious claims the Ballards knew were false.
Their followers protested outside the courthouse.
The District Court instructed the jury to convict if they found that the Ballards did not have a good faith belief in their religious claims.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit overturned the conviction and granted a new trial, declaring that the District Court erred in restricting the issue to whether the defendants had a good faith belief in their claims.
The government appealed to the Supreme Court.
The majority opinion reversed the decision of the Court of Appeals and remanded the case to that court, ruling that the question of the truth or falsity of the beliefs had been rightly withheld from the jury.
There was no ruling on the propriety of the jury instructions regarding the sincerity of the defendants' beliefs.
In his majority opinion, Justice Douglas wrote: <blockquote>The religious views espoused by respondents might seem incredible, if not preposterous, to most people.
But if those doctrines are subject to trial before a jury charged with finding their truth or falsity, then the same can be done with the religious beliefs of any sect.
When the triers of fact undertake that task, they enter a forbidden domain.
The First Amendment does not select any one group or any one type of religion for preferred treatment.
It puts them all in that position.< Chief Justice Stone, dissenting, argued that the question of truthfulness was appropriate for the jury: <blockquote>I am not prepared to say that the constitutional guarantee of freedom of religion affords immunity from criminal prosecution for the fraudulent procurement of money by false statements as to one's religious experiences, more than it renders polygamy or libel immune from criminal prosecution...
I cannot say that freedom of thought and worship includes freedom to procure money by making knowingly false statements about one's religious experiences.< Justice Jackson dissented because he believed that the First Amendment foreclosed inquiry into both the truthfulness of the defendants' religious claims and their sincerity.
He would have dismissed the case entirely for being too close to a religious persecution: <blockquote>I should say the defendants have done just that for which they are indicted.
If I might agree to their conviction without creating a precedent, I cheerfully would do so.
I can see in their teachings nothing but humbug, untainted by any trace of truth.
But that does not dispose of the constitutional question whether misrepresentation of religious experience or belief is prosecutable; it rather emphasizes the danger of such prosecutions.< <blockquote>Prosecutions of this character easily could degenerate into religious persecution.< </blockquote> <blockquote>I would dismiss the indictment and have done with this business of judicially examining other people's faiths.< </blockquote> <blockquote>All schools of religious thought make enormous assumptions, generally on the basis of revelations authenticated by some sign or miracle.< </blockquote> <blockquote>Some who profess belief in the Bible read literally what others read as allegory or metaphor, as they read Aesop's fables.< </blockquote> <blockquote>If we try religious sincerity severed from religious verity, we isolate the dispute from the very considerations which, in common experience, provide its most reliable answer.< </blockquote> <blockquote>William James, who wrote on these matters as a scientist, reminds us that it is not theology and ceremonies which keep religion going.
Its vitality is in the religious experiences of many people.
"If you ask what these experiences are, they are conversations with the unseen, voices and visions, responses to prayer, changes of heart, deliverances from fear, inflowings of help, assurances of support, whenever certain persons set their own internal attitude in certain appropriate ways.
"< </blockquote> <blockquote>If religious liberty includes, as it must, the right to communicate such experiences to others, it seems to me an impossible task for juries to separate fancied ones from real ones, dreams from happenings, and hallucinations from true clairvoyance.
Such experiences, like some tones and colors, have existence for one, but none at all for another.
They cannot be verified to the minds of those whose field of consciousness does not include religious insight.
When one comes to trial which turns on any aspect of religious belief or representation, unbelievers among his judges are likely not to understand, and are almost certain not to believe, him.< On remand to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit the original conviction was affirmed without rehearing by the Court of Appeals.
The defendants once again petitioned for a writ of certiorari and it was once again granted, this time on the issue of women being excluded from grand jury and the trial jury.
The Supreme Court ruled in favor of the defendants and dismissed the indictment as well as the subsequent conviction.
There are 41 Roman Catholic Dioceses in Poland.
These comprise about 10,000 parishes and religious orders.
There are 33 million Catholics.
The primate of the Church is Wojciech Polak, Archbishop of Gniezno.
According to the Pew Research Center, 92.2% of Poland's population is Catholic.
Ever since Poland officially adopted Latin Christianity in 966, the Catholic Church has played an important religious, cultural and political role in the country.
Identifying oneself as Catholic distinguished Polish culture and nationality from neighboring Germany, especially eastern and northern Germany, which is mostly Lutheran, and the countries to the east which are Orthodox.
During times of foreign oppression the Catholic Church was a cultural guard in the fight for independence and national survival.
For instance, the Polish abbey in Częstochowa, which successfully resisted a siege in the Swedish invasion of Poland in the 17th century, became a symbol of national resistance to occupation.
The establishment of a communist regime controlled by the Soviet Union following World War II allowed the church to continue fulfilling this role, although recent allegations suggest there was some collaboration between Polish clergy and the regime.
The 1978 election of Polish Cardinal Karol Wojtyła as Pope John Paul II strengthened the ties of identification.
John Paul's visits to Poland became rallying points for both the faithful and galvanized opposition to the Soviet regime.
His beatification in 2011 and canonization three years later further instilled pride and joy in the Polish people.
In 2013, Pope Francis, John Paul II's successor who was made a cardinal by the Polish pope, announced that World Youth Day, the world's largest religious gathering of young people, will be held in Kraków, Poland in 2016.
In 2013 a succession of child sex abuse scandals within the church, and the poor response by the church, became a matter of widespread public concern.
The church resisted demands to pay compensation to victims.
As of 2005 a majority of Poles, approximately 88%, identified themselves as Roman Catholic, and 58% said they are active practicing Catholics, according to a survey by the Centre for Public Opinion Research.
According to the Ministry of Foreigns Affairs of the Republic of Poland, 95% of Poles belong to the Roman Catholic Church; however, this survey bases the number of adherents on the number of infants baptized, as provided by the Catholic Church.
The CIA Factbook gives a number of 87.2% belonging to the Roman Catholic Church in 2012.
Throughout Europe the rates of religious observance has steadily decreased.
Poland has also been following this trend.
It remains one of the most devoutly religious countries in Europe.
Polish Catholics participate in the sacraments more frequently than their counterparts in most Western European and North American countries.
A 2009 study by the Church itself revealed that 80% of Poles go to confession at least once a year, while 60% of the respondents say they do so more often than once a year.
By contrast, a 2005 study by Georgetown University's Center for Applied Research on the Apostolate revealed that only 14% of American Catholics take part in the sacrament of penance once a year, with a mere 2% doing so more frequently.
Tarnów is the most religious city in Poland, and Łódź is the least.
The southern and eastern parts of Poland are more active in their religious practices than those of the West and North.
The majority of Poles continue to declare themselves Roman Catholic.
This is in stark contrast to the otherwise similar neighboring Czech Republic, which is one of the least religious practicing areas on Earth, with only 19% declaring "they believe there is a God" of any kind.
A survey by the church in 2014 found that the number of Polish Catholics attending Sunday mass had fallen by two million over the last decade, with 39% of baptized Catholics regularly attending church in 2014.
At the same time, however, this partly results from the fact that since 2004 2.1 million Poles have emigrated to Western Europe.
Writing for the Catholic weekly Tygodnik Powszechny, Church sociologist Rev.
Prof. Janusz Mariański has noted that these two million Polish emigrants are still listed in their parish records as members, so when Mass attendance is measured such emigres lower the official records.
The proportion of church goers receiving communion is rising, while the number of Polish Roman Catholic priests continues to rise as ordinations outpace deaths in Poland, though the number of nuns is decreasing.
The survey found that regular Sunday mass attendance varies by dioceses from a high Diocese of Tarnów (69%) to a low Archdiocese of Szczecin-Kamień (24.3%), and communion attendance from 23.7% in the Tarnów diocese down to 10.4% in the diocese of Koszalin-Kołobrzeg.
The Centre for Public Opinion Research regularly conducts surveys on religious practice in Poland.
A 2012 document reported that for more than a quarter century church attendance and declarations of religious faith has been stable, decreasing only minimally since 2005, when the grief related to the death of Pope John Paul II led to an increase in religious practice among Poles.
In a 2012 study, 54% of Poles declared that they attend religious services at least once a week, 18% do so once or twice a month, 20% do so several times a year, and only 8% do so never or almost never.
Meanwhile, 94% of Poles consider themselves to be religious believers (9% of whom consider themselves "deeply religious"), while only 6% of Poles claim that they are non-believers.
Easter continues to be an important holiday for Polish Catholics.
According to a 2012 study by the CBOS (Centre for Public Opinion Research), 74% of Poles make an effort to participate in the sacrament of penance before Easter, 59% make an effort to attend the Stations of the Cross or Gorzkie żale (an increase of 6% since 2003), 57% want to improve themselves for the better (an increase of 7%), 49% want to help the needy (an increase of 8%), and 46% want to pray more (a decline of 5%).
A CBOS opinion poll from April 2014 found the following: Latin names of dioceses in italics.
A concordat between the state and the Church allows the teaching of religious education in school.
There are 31,000 state-paid religious education teachers.
The government partially subsidises the Church for Catholic schools, historic Church buildings, and salaries for public and private religious teachers.
This totals about 2 billion zł (~ US$0.633112 billion on 5 V 2013).
According to Cardinal Kazimierz Nycz, money from money given by people including voluntary and semi-mandatory (e.g.
required during marriages ), religious events and other, is more than 6 billion zł(~ US$1.899336 billion on 5 V 2013 ).
The cham dance ( ; ), is a lively masked and costumed dance associated with some sects of Tibetan Buddhism and Buddhist festivals.
The dance is accompanied by music played by monks using traditional Tibetan instruments.
The dances often offer moral instruction relating to compassion for sentient beings and are held to bring merit to all who perceive them.
Cham dances are considered a form of meditation and an offering to the gods.
The leader of the cham is typically a musician, keeping time using some percussion instrument like cymbals, the one exception being Dramyin Cham, where time is kept using dramyin.
Chams often depict incidents from the life of Padmasambhava, the 9th century Nyingmapa teacher, and other saints.
The great debate of the Council of Lhasa between the two principal debators or dialecticians, Moheyan and Kamalaśīla is narrated and depicted in a specific cham dance once held annually at Kumbum Monastery in Qinghai.
In Bhutan, the dances are performed during an annual religious festival known as Tshechu, which is held in each district.
The Cham are performed by monks,nuns,villagers.The Royal Academy of Performing Arts are the main body which emphasize on preservation of culture of cham and dances.
Tibetans usually perform the cham dance to large audiences during the Monlam Prayer Festival.
Dances are performed in Sikkim, Dharamsala and Ladakh during cultural and religious festivals.
François Bovon (13 March 1938 – 1 November 2013) was a Swiss biblical scholar and historian of early Christianity.
He was the Frothingham Professor Emeritus of the History of Religion at Harvard Divinity School.
Bovon was a graduate of the University of Lausanne and held a doctorate in theology from the University of Basel.
From 1967 to 1993, he taught in the Faculty of Theology at the University of Geneva.
Bovon was an honorary professor at the University of Geneva and received an honorary doctorate from the University of Uppsala.
He was president of the Swiss Society of Theology from 1973 to 1977.
Bovon was the author of numerous books on early Christianity, and co-edited the first volume of Écrits apocryphes chrétiens in the series La Pléiade (published by Gallimard).
He also wrote several books on Luke the Evangelist and the Gospel of Luke, including a major critical commentary (in the series EKK).
The Religion of India: The Sociology of Hinduism and Buddhism is a book on the sociology of religion written by Max Weber, a German economist and sociologist of the early twentieth century.
The original edition was in German and published in 1916.
An English translation was made in 1958 and several editions have been released since then.
It was his third major work on the sociology of religion, after The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism and The Religion of China: Confucianism and Taoism.
In this work he deals with the structure of Indian society, with the orthodox doctrines of Hinduism and the heterodox doctrines of Buddhism, with the changes wrought by popular religiosity and their influence on the secular ethic of Indian society.
The Indian social system was influenced by the concept of caste (varna).
It directly linked religious belief and the segregation of society into status groups.
Weber goes on to describe the caste system (the Brahmins - priests, the Kshatriyas - warriors, the Vaisyas - merchants, the Sudras - laborers and the untouchables).
Weber pays special attention to Brahmins and considers why they occupied the highest place in Indian society for many centuries.
With regards to the concept of dharma he concludes that the Indian ethical pluralism is very different both from the universal ethic of Confucianism and Christianity.
He notes that the caste system prevented the development of urban status groups.
After the structure of the society, Weber analysed the Hindu religious beliefs - ascetism and the Hindu view of the world, the Brahman orthodox doctrines, the rise and fall of Buddhism in India, the Hindu restoration and the evolution of guru.
Weber discussed what influence Hinduism and Buddhism had on the mundane activities, and how they impacted the economy.
He noted the idea of unchanging world order consisting of the eternal cycles of rebirth, and the deprecation of mundane world.
By the traditionalism of the caste system supported by the religion, the economic development is slowed as, - according to Weber - the "spirit" of the caste system worked against the development of capitalism.
Weber ended his research of society and religion in India by bringing in insights from his previous work on China to discuss similarities of the Asian belief systems.
He notes that the beliefs saw the meaning of life as otherwoldy mystical experience.
The social world is fundamentally divided between the educated elite, following the guidance of a prophet or wise man, and the uneducated masses whose believes are centered on magic.
In Asia, there was no Messianic prophecy to plan and meaning to the everyday life of educated and uneducated alike.
Weber juxtaposed such Messianic prophecies, notably from the Near East region to those found on the Asiatic mainland, focusing more on exemplary ways to live one's life.
It was those differences that prevented the countries of the Occident from following the paths of the earlier Chinese and Indian civilizations.
His next work, Ancient Judaism was an attempt to prove this theory.
The Oaths 1978 (c 19) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.
Part I of the Act applies to England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Section 1 provides that an oath may be administered by the person taking the oath holding the New Testament, or, in the case of a Jew, the Old Testament, in his uplifted hand, and saying or repeating after the officer administering the oath the words "I swear by Almighty God that ...", followed by the words of the oath prescribed by law.
In the case of a person who is neither a Christian nor a Jew, the oath shall be administered in any lawful manner.
Part II of the Act applies to the whole of the United Kingdom.
Section 3 provides that if any person to whom an oath is administered desires to swear with uplifted hand, in the form and manner in which an oath is usually administered in Scotland, he shall be permitted so to do, and the oath shall be administered to him in such form and manner without further question.
Section 4(2) provides that lack of religious belief does not affect the validity of an oath.
Section 5 provides for the making of a solemn affirmation by a person who objects to being sworn.
A solemn affirmation may also be used where it is not reasonably practicable to administer an oath in a manner appropriate to a person's religious beliefs.
Section 6 provides that the form of a solemn affirmation is "I, do solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm ..." followed by the words of the oath prescribed by law, omitting any words of imprecation or calling to witness.
Section 7 repealed the Oaths Act 1838, the Oaths Act 1888, the Oaths Act 1909, the Oaths Act 1961 and section 8 of the Administration of Justice Act 1977.
In Ahmadiyya Islam, Jihad is a purely religious concept.
It is primarily one's personal inner struggle.
Armed struggle or military exertion is the last option only to be used in defense, to protect religion and one's own life in extreme situations of religious persecution, whilst not being able to follow one's fundamental religious beliefs; and even then it can only be carried out under the direct instruction of a Caliph, purely for the sake of God and the preservation of religion.
It is not permissible that jihad be used to spread Islam violently or for political motives, or that it be waged against a government that maintains religious freedom.
Political conflicts (even from a defensive stand) over independence, land and resources or reasons other than religious belief cannot be termed jihad.
Ahmadiyya claims its objective to be the revival and peaceful propagation of Islam with special emphasis on defending and extending Islam 'by the pen' and by argumentation.
Ahmadis point out that as per prophecy, Mirza Ghulam Ahmad (whom they believe to be the promised messiah) rendered Jihad in its military form as inapplicable in the present age as Islam, as a religion, is not being attacked militarily but through literature and other media, therefore the response should be likewise.
They believe that the answer of hate should be given by love.
As their khalifas said that 'if anyone attacks us we must not attack him and should treat them with love and kindness' this is called “Jihad-ul-Akbar” (The Greater Jihad).
Ahmadis denounce the usage of a sword or any other form of coercion as a method of the propagation of the Islamic faith.
In contrast to some of the commonly held views that historically Islam was spread by force, Ahmadis maintain that early Muslims did not take up the sword in order to spread their faith, but rather for the preservation of life.
In particular, the founder of the movement, Mirza Ghulam Ahmad stated that when Islam began gaining converts upon its birth, there was an ever increasing tension against the new converts by the pagans of Mecca, which resulted in them being severely persecuted for many years.
After many years of patience, the Muslim converts migrated to the neighbouring city of Medina.
This did not stop persecuting the Muslims.
They were pursued by the Pagans and it was only then that the Muslims first took up the sword in order to defend their lives.
Ahmadis denounce the usage of a sword as an Islamic concept with support from the Qur'an which according to them categorically rejects any form of coercion in religion.
The fourth Caliph, of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, Mirza Tahir Ahmad states:
The First Amendment Defense Act (often abbreviated FADA) ( ) is a bill introduced into the United States House of Representatives and United States Senate on June 17, 2015.
The Senate sponsor of the bill is Mike Lee (R-Utah), and the House sponsor is Raul Labrador (R-Idaho).
The bill aims to protect those who oppose same-sex marriage based on their religious beliefs from action by the federal government.
The bill provides that the federal government "shall not take any discriminatory action against a person, wholly or partially on the basis that such person believes or acts in accordance with a religious belief or moral conviction that marriage is or should be recognized as the union of one man and one woman, or that sexual relations are properly reserved to such a marriage."
The bill defines "person" to include for-profit companies, and "discriminatory action" to include "revocation of tax-exempt status, grants, loans, benefits, or employment."
The FADA was introduced into both the House and Senate on the same day (June 17, 2015), by Mike Lee and Raul Labrador.
As of July 17, the House version had 124 co-sponsors, and the Senate version 34.
Also as of that date, the House bill had not been considered by either of the two committees it had been referred to.
When asked by Heritage Action, FRC Action, and the American Principles Project if they would pass the bill in their first 100 days in office, three of the top four Republican presidential candidates in the 2016 election said they would, the exception being Donald Trump.
It was also supported by the Family Research Council, the American Family Association, and the Liberty Counsel, among other groups, shortly after it was introduced.
On July 21, 2015, the Los Angeles Times editorial board wrote that FADA was "unnecessary and could allow discrimination against gays and lesbians."
Later that year, Walter Olson of the Cato Institute wrote in Newsweek that the bill does not "try to distinguish rights from frills and privileges," and also criticized it for only protecting those who opposed same-sex marriage, not those who supported same-sex marriage or cohabitation or non-marital sex.
It has also been criticized by Ian S. Thompson, legislative director for the American Civil Liberties Union, who claimed that it would, if passed, "open the door to unprecedented taxpayer-funded discrimination against LGBT people, single mothers, and unmarried couples."
A version of the FADA was introduced in Georgia on January 21, 2016, by Greg Kirk, a Republican state senator.
The bill would, if passed, protect government employees who do not want to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples because they object to the practice for religious reasons.
Kirk cited Kentucky county clerk Kim Davis as an example of the people who would be affected by the law.
Summers v. Adams, was a case where the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit ruled that South Carolina's "I Believe" Act was unconstitutional for violating the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.
The law authorized the state's Department of Motor Vehicles to create a licence plate that had to contain "the words 'I Believe' and a cross superimposed on a stain glass window."
South Carolina law allows for organizations to file for customized licence plates that can be sold statewide.
After an unsuccessful attempt at implementing a similar license plate in Florida, Lieutenant Governor André Bauer proposed the "I Believe" Act with State Senator Yancey McGill.
On April 24, 2008, the act was introduced to the Senate and by May 21, 2008 the bill had been passed unanimously through both the Senate and the House.
The "I Believe" Act reads as follows: </blockquote> <blockquote> The Department of Motor Vehicles may issue "I Believe” special motor vehicle license plates to owners of private motor vehicles registered in their names.
The plate must contain the words “I Believe” and a cross superimposed on a stained glass window.
The biennial fee for this special license plate is the same as the fee provided in Article 5, Chapter 3 of this title.
The guidelines for the production of this special license plate must meet the requirements contained in Section 56-3-8100.
On June 5, 2008, the aforementioned act became law without the signature of Governor Mark Sanford.
The Department of Motor Vehicles debuted the new license plate on their website on October 30, 2008 and began taking orders from residents.
Three days later they had over four-hundred prepaid applications for the "I Believe" plate, allowing them to begin production, but that November the plaintiffs, four religious leaders and two non-profit religious-cultural organizations, filed for preliminary injunction and successfully stalled production of the plates on December 11, 2008.
The Plaintiffs included: Rev.
Dr. Thomas A. Summers, Rev.
Robert M. Knight, Rabbi Sanford T. Marcus, Rev.
Dr. Neal Jones, Hindu American Foundation, and American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee.
The plaintiffs opposed the "I Believe" Act on two grounds: However, when the courts doubted whether or not the plaintiffs had standing on the second accusation, they dismissed the second argument and chose to just focus solely on the violation of the Establishment Clause.
The defendant and the Director of the South Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles, Marcia S. Adams, considered the proposed license plate's purpose a secular one.
She argued that the plate was to "provide South Carolina motorist with another message that they can elect to convey when selecting from over one hundred available special license plates."
She notes that the "I Believe" plate provided an alternative to the "In Reason We Trust" plate (which was a secular take on the phrase "In God We Trust").
The Attorney General of South Carolina, Henry McMaster, argued another position when he gave his amicus curiae brief.
He described it as “[r]ather than being motivated by a secular purpose, the [‘I Believe' Act] is instead an accommodation to Christians, just as the other plates are accommodations to Parrot Heads and fraternity and sorority members.” Ruling with respect of stare decisis, the appellate court went on precedents set in the United States Supreme Court's decision of Lemon v. Kurtzman.
The "I Believe" Act's constitutionality was decided by being held up to the Lemon Test.
The three prongs of the Lemon Test are: First, the court ruled that the "I Believe" Act was not intended to serve a secular purpose.
Instead of making it easier for all groups to get custom plates, the bill only allowed "I Believe" to be backed by a cross and stained glass window.
That caused the plate to be "uniquely Christian".
The fact that the plate idea was not initiated by any group or organization, but by the Lieutenant Governor André Bauer, allowed the court to quickly rule that the government's action did not have a secular purpose.
For the second prong, the test requires that the primary effect of the action must not advance or inhibit religion.
The court ruled that the act's primary effect was promoting a specific religion, Christianity.
Because Christianity is the only religion represented, it "signals" that it's the preferred religion.
Quoting Wallace v. Jaffree, the Establishment Clause preclude[s] government from conveying or attempting to convey a message that religion or a particular religious belief is favored or preferred."
The last prong included in the Lemon Test forbids "excessive government entanglement" with religion.
The court found that the "I Believe" Act also failed the final prong.
The court saw the state's decision to use Christian symbols on a government-sponsored license plate the first sign of entanglement.
Adopting one religious belief will cause the legislature to vote and decide what other beliefs are "worthy", they say that as an even greater risk of entanglement.
When Lieutenant Governor André Bauer and Attorney General Henry McMaster went around the state speaking at church rallies in support of the "I Believe" Act, they not only caused further entanglement, but also went back on the decision in Newdow v. United States Congress, Elk Grove Unified School District, et al.. That decision stated that “the essential command of the Establishment Clause... [is] that government not make a person’s religious beliefs relevant to his or her standing in the political community by conveying a message ‘that religion or a particular religious belief is favored or preferred.’
TM and Cult Mania is a non-fiction book that examines assertions made by the Transcendental Meditation movement (TM).
The book is authored by Michael Persinger, Normand Carrey and Lynn Suess and published in 1980 by Christopher Publishing House.
Persinger is a neurophysiologist and has worked out of Laurentian University.
He trained as a psychologist and focused on the impacts of religious experience.
Carrey is a medical doctor who specialized in psychiatry.
He focused his studies into child psychiatry with research at Dalhousie University, and has taught physicians in a psychiatry residency program in the field of family therapy.
Suess assisted Persinger in researching effects of geological phenomena on unidentified flying object sightings in Washington; the two conducted similar research in Toronto and Ottawa.
TM and Cult Mania analyzes the efficacy or lack thereof of the TM meditation process, concluding that it is, "no more effective than many other meditation techniques".
The authors write that, "Transcendental Meditation has achieved international recognition through commercial exploitation" and "poor scientific procedures".
The book notes that physiological changes observed due to partaking in TM methodology are very small.
Persinger, Carrey, and Suess conclude in TM and Cult Mania, "science has been used as a sham for propaganda by the TM movement."
A positive capsule review in the Los Angeles Times noted that the authors use logic to point out transparencies in the assertions of Transcendental Meditation.
John Horgan, in his book Rational Mysticism, questions Persinger's neutrality and says that in his book he treats religious beliefs and spiritual practices as mental illness.
Michael Persinger is a neurophysiologist who has worked at Laurentian University in Greater Sudbury, Ontario, Canada.
He trained as a psychologist and focused on the impacts of religious experience.
Persinger is the author of the book Neuropsychological Basis of Human Belief, and since its publication he has researched and examined the physiological and neurological causes of religious belief systems.
Normand Carrey received education as a medical doctor and specialized in psychiatry.
He became a child psychiatrist, and worked out of Dalhousie University in Halifax, Canada.
Carrey has conducted studies into psychological resilience, and has taught physicians in a psychiatry residency program in the field of family therapy.
He has worked in the field of adolescent psychiatry at IWK Health Centre.
Lynn Suess assisted Persinger in 1980, in researching geological phenomena which may have affected unidentified flying object sightings in Washington.
Suess and Persinger performed similar research in Toronto and Ottawa.
TM and Cult Mania takes a look at the assertions made by the Transcendental Meditation movement and analyzes them from a scientific perspective.
The book acknowledges that those who practice the Transcendental Meditation technique feel relaxed and experience an increase in creativity.
According to the book, the physiological effects reported by the scientific studies on Transcendental Meditation are relatively small from a scientific perspective and "no more effective than many other meditation techniques".
Transcendental Meditation is seen as most noteworthy due to its ability to manipulate stress and expectancy.
"Transcendental Meditation has achieved international recognition through commercial exploitation" and "poor scientific procedures", write the authors.
The book notes, "Frankly, the reported effects of TM upon human behavior are trivial.
Considering the alleged potency of the TM procedure, the changes in physiological and behavioral measures are conspicuously minute."
TM and Cult Mania comes to the conclusion that, "science has been used as a sham for propaganda by the TM movement."
A capsule review of the book for the Los Angeles Times, Phil Freshman commented, "Using hard logic and crackling humor, a trio of Canadian laboratory researchers cogently deflates Transcendental Meditation; they spotlight transparencies in its claims and warn of its latent hazards to those in wobbly mental health."
In his book Rational Mysticism, author John Horgan comments that although Persinger says he's neutral toward religious belief, he's more biased than other neurotheologians and that his two books "cast religious belief and spiritual practices in a psychopathological light".
The Atheism Tapes is a 2004 BBC television documentary series presented by Jonathan Miller.
The material that makes up the series was originally filmed in 2003 for another, more general series, Atheism: A Rough History of Disbelief, but was too lengthy for inclusion.
Instead, the BBC agreed to create The Atheism Tapes as a supplementary series of six programmes, each consisting of an extended interview with one contributor.
All six programmes were conducted in the form of interviews; the synopses below are summaries of the interviewees' responses to Miller's questions.
English philosopher McGinn speaks about the various reasons for not believing in God, and some of the reasons for.
He gives a thorough treatment of the ontological argument.
In addition, McGinn draws an important distinction between atheism (lack of belief in a deity) and antitheism (active opposition to theism); he identifies himself as both an atheist and an antitheist.
Finally, he speculates about a post-theistic society.
American physicist Weinberg talks about the effectiveness of the Design Argument, both in the past and today.
He also discusses the reasons that people become religious, including the varying influences of physical and biological arguments against religion.
Miller connects this to a higher likelihood of biologists being non-believers than physicists, which Weinberg finds surprising.
Weinberg goes on to distinguish between harm done in the name of religion from that done by religion and states that both of these are very real and very dangerous.
He goes on to discuss the difference between religious belief in America and Europe, and about how he doesn't like the "character" of the monotheistic God.
He ends by saying that science is very definitely corrosive to religious belief, and that he considers this a good thing.
American playwright Arthur Miller talks about his atheism from a Jewish perspective.
He discusses his view that some cases of antisemitism come from Christians who believe Jewish people are disbelievers because they do not believe Christ was the son of God.
They also discuss the overlay of religion and patriotism, particularly with American politics, but also on how many of the wars today come from the mixture of nationalism and religious beliefs.
Lastly, he explains how he does not believe that there is an afterlife except in the sense that people are remembered by the material possessions that they leave behind or the deeds that they did during their life that still have an impact on the world.
English biologist Richard Dawkins first talks about how the view that evil exists may come from a personification of some principal belief.
Next, he explains the process by which he became an atheist despite being raised as an Anglican.
They then discuss at length natural selection and how it acts as the guiding force for evolution.
He also points out the fallacy in using a God-of-the-gaps argument for explaining the world.
Next, he goes over the importance of holding and defending an atheist world view.
British theologian Denys Turner points out that being an atheist or theist depends largely upon what questions you ask yourself.
He then shares his view that atheism can also suffer from its own sort of fundamentalism.
They spend some time covering the issue of why or how something comes from nothing.
American philosopher Dennett explains why he called one of his books Darwin's Dangerous Idea, and why many of Darwin's contemporaries, in particular, considered Darwin's theory of evolution to be dangerous.
He goes on to deal with the question of consciousness (i.e., is the consciousness/soul distinct from the body), talking about Darwin's rejection of the soul and the possible origins and psychological purposes of a belief in an immaterial soul.
Next, he talks about his Christian upbringing and how he became an atheist.
He goes on to ask why it is thought rude to criticise religious belief, and suggests that it is due to the influential status of the religions in question.
He finishes by wondering whether we could live effectively in a post-theistic world.
Psychology of religion consists of the application of psychological methods and interpretive frameworks to religious traditions, as well as to both religious and irreligious individuals.
The science attempts to accurately describe the details, origins, and uses of religious beliefs and behaviors.
Although the psychology of religion first arose as a self-conscious discipline as recently as the late 19th century, all three of these tasks have a history going back many centuries before that.
Many areas of religion remain unexplored by psychology.
While religion and spirituality play a role in many people’s lives, it is uncertain how they lead to outcomes that are at times positive, and at other times negative.
Thus, the pathways and outcomes that underlie these associations (and sometimes causations) need additional research.
Continued dialogue between psychology and theology may foster greater understanding and benefit both fields.
In contrast to neurotheology, the psychology of religion studies only psychological rather than neural states.
The challenge for the psychology of religion is essentially threefold: (1) to provide a thoroughgoing description of the objects of investigation, whether they be shared religious content (e.g., a tradition's ritual observances) or individual experiences, attitudes, or conduct; (2) to account in psychological terms for the rise of such phenomena; and (3) to clarify the outcomes—the fruits, as William James put it—of these phenomena, for individuals and for the larger society.
The first, descriptive task naturally requires a clarification of one's terms, above all, the word religion.
Historians of religion have long underscored the problematic character of this term, noting that its usage over the centuries has changed in significant ways, generally in the direction of reification.
The early psychologists of religion were fully aware of these difficulties, typically acknowledging that the definitions they were choosing to use were to some degree arbitrary.
With the rise of positivistic trends in psychology over the course of the 20th century, especially the demand that all phenomena be measured, psychologists of religion developed a multitude of scales, most of them developed for use with Protestant Christians.
Factor analysis was also brought into play by both psychologists and sociologists of religion, in an effort to establish a fixed core of dimensions and a corresponding set of scales.
The justification and adequacy of these efforts, especially in the light of constructivist and other postmodern viewpoints, remains a matter of debate.
In the last several decades, especially among clinical psychologists, a preference for the terms "spirituality" and "spiritual" has emerged, along with efforts to distinguish them from "religion" and "religious."
Especially in the United States, "religion" has for many become associated with sectarian institutions and their obligatory creeds and rituals, thus giving the word a negative cast; "spirituality," in contrast, is positively constructed as deeply individual and subjective, as a universal capacity to apprehend and accord one's life with higher realities.
In fact, "spirituality" has likewise undergone an evolution in the West, from a time when it was essentially a synonym for religion in its original, subjective meaning.
Pargament (1997) suggests that rather than limiting the usage of “religion” to functional terms, a search for meaning, or substantive terms, anything related to the sacred, we can consider the interplay of these two vantage points.
He proposes that religion can be considered the process of searching for meaning in relationship with the sacred.
Today, efforts are ongoing to "operationalize" these terms, with little regard for their history in their Western context, and with the apparent realist assumption that underlying them are fixed qualities identifiable by means of empirical procedures.
Schnitker and Emmons theorized that the understanding of religion as a search for meaning makes implications in the three psychological areas of motivation, cognition and social relationships.
The cognitive aspects relate to God and a sense of purpose, the motivational ones to the need to control, and the religious search for meaning is also weaved into social communities.
American psychologist and philosopher William James (1842–1910) is regarded by most psychologists of religion as the founder of the field.
He served as president of the American Psychological Association, and wrote one of the first psychology textbooks.
In the psychology of religion, James' influence endures.
His Varieties of Religious Experience is considered to be the classic work in the field, and references to James' ideas are common at professional conferences.
James distinguished between institutional religion and personal religion.
Institutional religion refers to the religious group or organization, and plays an important part in a society's culture.
Personal religion, in which the individual has mystical experience, can be experienced regardless of the culture.
James was most interested in understanding personal religious experience.
In studying personal religious experiences, James made a distinction between healthy-minded and sick-souled religiousness.
Individuals predisposed to healthy-mindedness tend to ignore the evil in the world and focus on the positive and the good.
James used examples of Walt Whitman and the "mind-cure" religious movement to illustrate healthy-mindedness in The Varieties of Religious Experience.
In contrast, individuals predisposed to having a sick-souled religion are unable to ignore evil and suffering, and need a unifying experience, religious or otherwise, to reconcile good and evil.
James included quotations from Leo Tolstoy and John Bunyan to illustrate the sick soul.
William James' hypothesis of pragmatism stems from the efficacy of religion.
If an individual believes in and performs religious activities, and those actions happen to work, then that practice appears the proper choice for the individual.
However, if the processes of religion have little efficacy, then there is no rationality for continuing the practice.
Hegel (1770-1831) described all systems of religion, philosophy, and social science as expressions of the basic urge of consciousness to learn about itself and its surroundings, and record its findings and hypotheses.
Thus, religion is only a form of that search for knowledge, within which humans record various experiences and reflections.
Others, compiling and categorizing these writings in various ways, form the consolidated worldview as articulated by that religion, philosophy, social science, etc.
His work The Phenomenology of Spirit was a study of how various types of writing and thinking draw from and re-combine with the individual and group experiences of various places and times, influencing the current forms of knowledge and worldviews that are operative in a population.
This activity is the functioning of an incomplete group mind, where each individual is accessing the recorded wisdom of others.
His works often include detailed descriptions of the psychological motivations involved in thought and behavior, e.g., the struggle of a community or nation to know itself and thus correctly govern itself.
In Hegel's system, Religion is one of the major repositories of wisdom to be used in these struggles, representing a huge body of recollections from humanity's past in various stages of its development.
Sigmund Freud (1856–1939) gave explanations of the genesis of religion in his various writings.
In Totem and Taboo, he applied the idea of the Oedipus complex (involving unresolved sexual feelings of, for example, a son toward his mother and hostility toward his father) and postulated its emergence in the primordial stage of human development.
In Moses and Monotheism, Freud reconstructed biblical history in accordance with his general theory.
His ideas were also developed in The Future of an Illusion.
When Freud spoke of religion as an illusion, he maintained that it is a fantasy structure from which a man must be set free if he is to grow to maturity.
Freud views the idea of God as being a version of the father image, and religious belief as at bottom infantile and neurotic.
Authoritarian religion, Freud believed, is dysfunctional and alienates man from himself.
The Swiss psychoanalyst Carl Jung (1875–1961) adopted a very different posture, one that was more sympathetic to religion and more concerned with a positive appreciation of religious symbolism.
Jung considered the question of the metaphysical existence of God to be unanswerable by the psychologist and adopted a kind of agnosticism.
Jung postulated, in addition to the personal unconscious (roughly adopting Freud's concept), the collective unconscious, which is the repository of human experience and which contains "archetypes" (i.e.
basic images that are universal in that they recur regardless of culture).
The irruption of these images from the unconscious into the realm of consciousness he viewed as the basis of religious experience and often of artistic creativity.
Some of Jung's writings have been devoted to elucidating some of the archetypal symbols, and include his work in comparative mythology.
Austrian psychiatrist Alfred Adler (1870–1937), who parted ways with Freud, emphasised the role of goals and motivation in his Individual Psychology.
One of Adler's most famous ideas is that we try to compensate for inferiorities that we perceive in ourselves.
A lack of power often lies at the root of feelings of inferiority.
One way that religion enters into this picture is through our beliefs in God, which are characteristic of our tendency to strive for perfection and superiority.
For example, in many religions God is considered to be perfect and omnipotent, and commands people likewise to be perfect.
If we, too, achieve perfection, we become one with God.
By identifying with God in this way, we compensate for our imperfections and feelings of inferiority.
Our ideas about God are important indicators of how we view the world.
According to Adler, these ideas have changed over time, as our vision of the world – and our place in it – has changed.
Consider this example that Adler offers: the traditional belief that people were placed deliberately on earth as God's ultimate creation is being replaced with the idea that people have evolved by natural selection.
This coincides with a view of God not as a real being, but as an abstract representation of nature's forces.
In this way our view of God has changed from one that was concrete and specific to one that is more general.
From Adler's vantage point, this is a relatively ineffective perception of God because it is so general that it fails to convey a strong sense of direction and purpose.
An important thing for Adler is that God (or the idea of God) motivates people to act, and that those actions do have real consequences for ourselves and for others.
Our view of God is important because it embodies our goals and directs our social interactions.
Compared to science, another social movement, religion is more efficient because it motivates people more effectively.
According to Adler, only when science begins to capture the same religious fervour, and promotes the welfare of all segments of society, will the two be more equal in peoples' eyes.
In his classic book The Individual and His Religion (1950), Gordon Allport (1897–1967) illustrates how people may use religion in different ways.
He makes a distinction between Mature religion and Immature religion.
Mature religious sentiment is how Allport characterized the person whose approach to religion is dynamic, open-minded, and able to maintain links between inconsistencies.
In contrast, immature religion is self-serving and generally represents the negative stereotypes that people have about religion.
More recently, this distinction has been encapsulated in the terms "intrinsic religion", referring to a genuine, heartfelt devout faith, and "extrinsic religion", referring to a more utilitarian use of religion as a means to an end, such as church attendance to gain social status.
These dimensions of religion were measured on the Religious Orientation Scale of Allport and Ross (1967).
A third form of religious orientation has been described by Daniel Batson.
This refers to treatment of religion as an open-ended search (Batson, Schoenrade & Ventis, 1993).
More specifically, it has been seen by Batson as comprising a willingness to view religious doubts in a positive manner, acceptance that religious orientation can change and existential complexity, the belief that one's religious beliefs should be shaped from personal crises that one has experienced in one's life.
Batson refers to extrinsic, intrinsic and quest respectively as Religion-as-means, religion-as-end and religion-as-quest, and measures these constructs on the Religious Life Inventory (Batson, Schoenrade & Ventis, 1993).
Erik Erikson (1902–1994) is best known for his theory of psychological development, which has its roots in the psychoanalytic importance of identity in personality.
His biographies of Gandhi and Martin Luther reveal Erikson's positive view of religion.
He considered religions to be important influences in successful personality development because they are the primary way that cultures promote the virtues associated with each stage of life.
Religious rituals facilitate this development.
Erikson's theory has not benefited from systematic empirical study, but it remains an influential and well-regarded theory in the psychological study of religion.
The American scholar Erich Fromm (1900–1980) modified the Freudian theory and produced a more complex account of the functions of religion.
In his book Psychoanalysis and Religion he responded to Freud's theories by explaining that part of the modification is viewing the Oedipus complex as based not so much on sexuality as on a "much more profound desire", namely, the childish desire to remain attached to protecting figures.
The right religion, in Fromm's estimation, can, in principle, foster an individual's highest potentialities, but religion in practice tends to relapse into being neurotic.
According to Fromm, humans have a need for a stable frame of reference.
Religion apparently fills this need.
In effect, humans crave answers to questions that no other source of knowledge has an answer to, which only religion may seem to answer.
However, a sense of free will must be given in order for religion to appear healthy.
An authoritarian notion of religion appears detrimental.
Rudolf Otto (1869–1937) was a German Protestant theologian and scholar of comparative religion.
Otto's most famous work, The Idea of the Holy (published first in 1917 as Das Heilige), defines the concept of the holy as that which is numinous.
Otto explained the numinous as a "non-rational, non-sensory experience or feeling whose primary and immediate object is outside the self."
It is a mystery (Latin: mysterium tremendum) that is both fascinating (fascinans) and terrifying at the same time; A mystery that causes trembling and fascination, attempting to explain that inexpressible and perhaps supernatural emotional reaction of wonder drawing us to seemingly ordinary and/or religious experiences of grace.
This sense of emotional wonder appears evident at the root of all religious experiences.
Through this emotional wonder, we suspend our rational mind for non-rational possibilities.
It also sets a paradigm for the study of religion that focuses on the need to realise the religious as a non-reducible, original category in its own right.
This paradigm was under much attack between approximately 1950 and 1990 but has made a strong comeback since then.
Autobiographal accounts of 20th century psychology of religion as a field have been supplied by numerous modern psychologists of religion, primarily based in Europe, but also by several US-based psychologists such as Ralph W. Hood and Donald Capps.
Allen Bergin is noted for his 1980 paper "Psychotherapy and Religious Values," which is known as a landmark in scholarly acceptance that religious values do, in practice, influence psychotherapy.
He received the Distinguished Professional Contributions to Knowledge award from the American Psychological Association in 1989 and was cited as challenging "psychological orthodoxy to emphasize the importance of values and religion in therapy."
Robert Emmons offered a theory of "spiritual strivings" in his 1999 book, The Psychology of Ultimate Concerns.
With support from empirical studies, Emmons argued that spiritual strivings foster personality integration because they exist at a higher level of the personality.
Kenneth Pargament is noted for his book Psychology of Religion and Coping (1997; see article), as well as for a 2007 book on religion and psychotherapy, and a sustained research program on religious coping.
He is professor of psychology at Bowling Green State University (Ohio, USA), and has published more than 100 papers on the subject of religion and spirituality in psychology.
Pargament led the design of a questionnaire called the "RCOPE" to measure Religious Coping strategies.
</ref> Pargament has distinguished between three types of styles for coping with stress: 1) Collaborative, in which people co-operate with God to deal with stressful events; 2) Deferring, in which people leave everything to God; and 3) Self-directed, in which people do not rely on God and try exclusively to solve problems by their own efforts.
He also describes four major stances toward religion that have been adopted by psychotherapists in their work with clients, which he calls the religiously rejectionist, exclusivist, constructivist, and pluralist stances.
James Hillman, at the end of his book Re-Visioning Psychology, reverses James' position of viewing religion through psychology, urging instead that we view psychology as a variety of religious experience.
He concludes: "Psychology as religion implies imagining all psychological events as effects of Gods in the soul."
Julian Jaynes, primarily in his book The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind, proposed that religion (and some other psychological phenomena such as hypnosis and schizophrenia) is a remnant of a relatively recent time in human development, prior to the advent of consciousness.
Jaynes hypothesized that hallucinated verbal commands helped non-conscious early man to perform tasks promoting human survival.
Starting about 10,000 BCE, selective pressures favored the hallucinated verbal commands for social control, and they came to be perceived as an external, rather than internal, voice commanding the person to take some action.
These were hence often explained as originating from invisible gods, spirits, ancestors, etc.
There are three primary hypotheses on the role of religion in the modern world.
The first hypothesis, secularization, holds that science and technology will take the place of religion.
Secularization supports the separation of religion from politics, ethics, and psychology.
Taking this position even further, Taylor explains that secularization denies transcendence, divinity, and rationality in religious beliefs.
Challenges to the secularization hypothesis led to significant revisions, resulting in the religious transformation hypothesis.
This perspective holds that general trends towards individualism and social disintegration will produce changes in religion, making religious practice more individualized and spiritually focused.
This in turn is expected to produce more spiritual seeking, although not exclusive to religious institutions.
Eclecticism, which draws from multiple religious/spiritual systems and New Age movements are also predicted to result.
In response to the religious transformation hypothesis, Ronald Inglehart piloted the renewal of the secularization hypothesis.
His argument hinges on the premise that religion develops to fill the human need for security.
Therefore the development of social and economic security in Europe explains its corresponding secularization due to a lack of need for religion.
However, religion continues in the third world where social and economic insecurity are rampant.
The overall effect is expected to be a growing cultural disparity.
The idea that religiosity arises from the human need for security has also been furthered by studies examining religious beliefs as a compensatory mechanism of control.
These studies are motivated by the idea that people are invested in maintaining beliefs in order and structure to prevent beliefs in chaos and randomness In the experimental setting, researchers have also tested compensatory control in regard to individuals’ perceptions of external systems, such as religion or government.
For example, Kay and colleagues found that in a laboratory setting, individuals are more likely to endorse broad external systems (e.g., religion or sociopolitical systems) that impose order and control on their lives when they are induced with lowered levels of personal control.
In this study, researchers suggest that when a person’s personal control is lessened, their motivation to believe in order is threatened, resulting in compensation of this threat through adherence to other external sources of control.
Since the 1960s psychologists of religion have used the methodology of psychometrics to assess ways in which a person may be religious.
An example is the Religious Orientation Scale of Allport and Ross, which measures how respondents stand on intrinsic and extrinsic religion as described by Allport.
More recent questionnaires include the Age-Universal I-E Scale of Gorsuch and Venable, the Religious Life Inventory of Batson, Schoenrade and Ventis, and the Spiritual Experiences Index-Revised of Genia.
The first provides an age-independent measure of Allport and Ross's two religious orientations.
The second measures three forms of religious orientation: religion as means (intrinsic), religion as end (extrinsic), and religion as quest.
The third assesses spiritual maturity using two factors: Spiritual Support and Spiritual Openness.
Some questionnaires, such as the Religious Orientation Scale, relate to different religious orientations, such as intrinsic and extrinsic religiousness, referring to different motivations for religious allegiance.
A rather different approach, taken, for example, by Glock and Stark (1965), has been to list different dimensions of religion rather than different religious orientations, which relates to how an individual may manifest different forms of being religious.
(More on Stark's work can be found in the article on Sociology of Religion.)
Glock and Stark's famous typology described five dimensions of religion – the doctrinal, the intellectual, the ethical-consequential, the ritual, and the experiential.
In later work these authors subdivided the ritual dimension into devotional and public ritual, and also clarified that their distinction of religion along multiple dimensions was not identical to distinguishing religious orientations.
Although some psychologists of religion have found it helpful to take a multidimensional approach to religion for the purpose of psychometric scale design, there has been, as Wulff (1997) explains, considerable controversy about whether religion should really be seen as multidimensional.
What we call religious experiences can differ greatly.
Some reports exist of supernatural happenings that it would be difficult to explain from a rational, scientific point of view.
On the other hand, there also exist the sort of testimonies that simply seem to convey a feeling of peace or oneness – something which most of us, religious or not, may possibly relate to.
In categorizing religious experiences it is perhaps helpful to look at them as explicable through one of two theories: the Objectivist thesis or the Subjectivist thesis.
An objectivist would argue that the religious experience is a proof of God's existence.
However, others have criticised the reliability of religious experiences.
The English philosopher Thomas Hobbes asked how it was possible to tell the difference between talking to God in a dream, and dreaming about talking to God.
The Subjectivist view argues that it is not necessary to think of religious experiences as evidence for the existence of an actual being whom we call God.
From this point of view, the important thing is the experience itself and the effect that it has on the individual.
Many have looked at stage models, like those of Jean Piaget and Lawrence Kohlberg, to explain how children develop ideas about God and religion in general.
The most well known stage model of spiritual or religious development is that of James W. Fowler, a developmental psychologist at the Candler School of Theology, in his Stages of Faith.
He follows Piaget and Kohlberg and has proposed a holistic staged development of faith (or spiritual development) across the lifespan.
The book-length study contains a framework and ideas which have generated a good deal of response from those interested in religion , so it appears to have face validity.
James Fowler proposes six stages of faith development: 1.
Although there is evidence that children up to the age of twelve years do tend to be in the first two of these stages , adults over the age of sixty-one show considerable variation in displays of qualities of Stages 3 and beyond , most adults remaining in Stage 3 (Synthetic Conventional).
Fowler's model has generated some empirical studies, and fuller descriptions of this research (and of these six stages) can be found in Wulff (1991).
Fowler's scientific research has been criticized for methodological weaknesses.
Of Fowler's six stages, only the first two found empirical support , and these were heavily based upon Piaget's stages of cognitive development.
The tables and graphs in the book were presented in such a way that the last four stages appeared to be validated, but the requirements of statistical verification of the stages were not met.
His study was not published in a journal, so was not peer-reviewed.
Other critics of Fowler have questioned whether his ordering of the stages really reflects his own commitment to a rather liberal Christian Protestant outlook, as if to say that people who adopt a similar viewpoint to Fowler are at higher stages of faith development.
Nevertheless, the concepts Fowler introduced seemed to hit home with those in the circles of academic religion , and have been an important starting point for various theories and subsequent studies .
Other theorists in developmental psychology have suggested that religiosity comes naturally to young children.
Specifically, children may have a natural-born conception of mind-body dualism, which lends itself to beliefs that the mind may live on after the body dies.
In addition, children have a tendency to see agency and human design where there is not, and prefer a creationist explanation of the world even when raised by parents who do not.
Researchers have also investigated attachment system dynamics as a predictor of the religious conversion experience throughout childhood and adolescence.
One hypothesis is the correspondence hypothesis, which posits that individuals with secure parental attachment are more likely to experience a gradual conversion experience.
Under the correspondence hypothesis, internal working models of a person’s attachment figure is thought to perpetuate his or her perception of God as a secure base.
Another hypothesis relating attachment style to the conversion experience is the compensation hypothesis, which states that individuals with insecure attachments are more likely to have a sudden conversion experience as they compensate for their insecure attachment relationship by seeking a relationship with God.
Researchers have tested these hypotheses using longitudinal studies and individuals’ self narratives of their conversation experience.
For example, one study investigating attachment styles and adolescent conversions at Young Life religious summer camps resulted in evidence supporting the correspondence hypothesis through analysis of personal narratives and a prospective longitudinal follow-up of Young Life campers, with mixed results for the compensation hypothesis.
Religious practice oftentimes manifests itself in some form of prayer.
Recent studies have focused specifically on the effects of prayer on health.
Measures of prayer and the above measures of spirituality evaluate different characteristics and should not be considered synonymous.
Prayer is fairly prevalent in the United States.
About 75% of the United States reports praying at least once a week.
However, the practice of prayer is more prevalent and practiced more consistently among Americans who perform other religious practices.
There are four primary types of prayer in the West.
Poloma and Pendleton, utilized factor analysis to delineate these four types of prayer: meditative (more spiritual, silent thinking), ritualistic (reciting), petitionary (making requests to God), and colloquial (general conversing with God).
Further scientific study of prayer using factor analysis has revealed three dimensions of prayer.
Ladd and Spilka’s first factor was awareness of self, inward reaching.
Their second and third factors were upward reaching (toward God) and outward reaching (toward others).
This study appears to support the contemporary model of prayer as connection (whether to the self, higher being, or others).
Dein and Littlewood (2008) suggest that an individual’s prayer life can be viewed on a spectrum ranging from immature to mature.
A progression on the scale is characterized by a change in the perspective of the purpose of prayer.
Rather than using prayer as a means of changing the reality of a situation, a more mature individual will use prayer to request assistance in coping with immutable problems and draw closer to God or others.
This change in perspective has been shown to be associated with an individual’s passage through adolescence.
Prayer appears to have health implications.
Empirical studies suggest that mindfully reading and reciting the Psalms (from scripture) can help a person calm down and focus.
Prayer is also positively correlated with happiness and religious satisfaction (Poloma & Pendleton, 1989, 1991).
A study conducted by Franceis, Robbins, Lewis, and Barnes (2008) investigated the relationship between self-reported prayer frequency and measures of psychoticism and neuroticism according to the abbreviated form of the Revised Eysenck Personality Questionnaire (EPQR-A).
The study included a sample size of 2306 students attending Protestant and Catholic schools in the highly religious culture of Northern Ireland.
The data shows a negative correlation between prayer frequency and psychoticism.
The data also shows that, in Catholic students, frequent prayer has a positive correlation to neuroticism scores.
Ladd and McIntosh (2008) suggest that prayer-related behaviors, such as bowing the head and clasping the hands together in an almost fetal position, are suggestive of “social touch” actions.
Prayer in this manner may prepare an individual to carry out positive pro-social behavior after praying, due to factors such as increased blood flow to the head and nasal breathing.
Overall, slight health benefits have been found fairly consistently across studies.
Three main pathways to explain this trend have been offered: placebo effect, focus and attitude adjustment, and activation of healing processes.
These offerings have been expanded by Breslan and Lewis (2008) who have constructed a five pathway model between prayer and health with the following mediators: physiological, psychological, placebo, social support, and spiritual.
The spiritual mediator is a departure from the rest in that its potential for empirical investigation is not currently feasible.
Although the conceptualizations of chi, the universal mind, divine intervention, and the like breach the boundaries of scientific observation, they are included in this model as possible links between prayer and health so as to not unnecessarily exclude the supernatural from the broader conversation of psychology and religion.
(However, whether the activation of healing processes explanation is supernatural or biological, or even both, is beyond the scope of this study and this article.)
Another significant form of religious practice is ritual.
Religious rituals encompass a wide array of practices, but can be defined as the performance of similar actions and vocal expressions based on prescribed tradition and cultural norms.
Examples include the Jewish Bar Mitzvah, Christian Holy Eucharist, Hindu Puja, and Muslim Salat and Hajj.
Scheff suggests that ritual provides catharsis, emotional purging, through distancing.
This emotional distancing enables an individual to experience feelings with an amount of separation, and thus less intensity.
However, the conception of religious ritual as an interactive process has since matured and become more scientifically established.
From this view, ritual offers a means to catharsis through behaviors that foster connection with others, allowing for emotional expression.
This focus on connection contrasts to the separation that seems to underlie Scheff’s view.
Additional research suggests the social component of ritual.
For instance, findings suggest that ritual performance indicates group commitment and prevents the uncommitted from gaining membership benefits.
Ritual may aid in emphasizing moral values that serve as group norms and regulate societies.
It may also strengthen commitment to moral convictions and likelihood of upholding these social expectations.
Thus, performance of rituals may foster social group stability.
There is considerable literature on the relationship between religion and health.
More than 3000 empirical studies have examined relationships between religion and health, including more than 1200 in the 20th century, and more than 2000 additional studies between 2000 and 2009.
Psychologists consider that there are various ways in which religion may benefit both physical and mental health, including encouraging healthy lifestyles, providing social support networks and encouraging an optimistic outlook on life; prayer and meditation may also help to benefit physiological functioning.
The journal "American Psychologist" published important papers on this topic in 2003.
Haber, Jacob and Spangler have considered how different dimensions of religiosity may relate to health benefits in different ways.
Some studies indicate that religiosity appears to positively correlate with physical health.
For instance, mortality rates are lower among people who frequently attend religious events and consider themselves both religious and spiritual.
One possibility is that religion provides physical health benefits indirectly.
Church attendees present with lower rates of alcohol consumption and improvement in mood, which is associated with better physical health.
Kenneth Pargament is a major contributor to the theory of how individuals may use religion as a resource in coping with stress, His work seems to show the influence of attribution theory.
Additional evidence suggests that this relationship between religion and physical health may be causal.
Religion may reduce likelihood of certain diseases.
Studies suggest that it guards against cardiovascular disease by reducing blood pressure, and also improves immune system functioning.
Similar studies have been done investigating religious emotions and health.
Although religious emotions, such as humility, forgiveness, and gratitude confer health benefits, it is unclear if religious people cultivate and experience those emotions more frequently than non-religious peoples.
However, randomized controlled trials of intercessory prayer have not yielded significant effects on health.
These trials have compared personal, focused, committed and organized intercessory prayer with those interceding holding some belief that they are praying to God or a god versus any other intervention.
A Cochrane collaboration review of these trials concluded that 1) results were equivocal, 2) evidence does not support a recommendation either in favor or against the use of intercessory prayer and 3) any resources available for future trials should be used to investigate other questions in health research.
In a case-control study done following 5,286 Californians over a 28-year period in which variables were controlled for (i.e.
age, race/ethnicity, gender, education level), participants who went to church on a frequent basis (defined as attending a religious service once a week or more) were 36% less likely to die during that period.
However, this can be partly be attributed to a better lifestyle since religious people tend to drink and smoke less and eat a healthier diet.
Another study detailing the connection between religion and physical health was done in Israel as a prospective cohort case study.
In a study done of almost 4,000 Israelis, over 16 years (beginning in 1970), death rates were compared between the experimental group (people belonging to 11 religious kibbutzim) versus the control group (people belonging to secular kibbutzim).
Some determining factors for the groups included the date the kibbutz was created, geography of the different groups, and the similarity in age.
It was determined that “belonging to a religious collective was associated with a strong protective effect".
Not only do religious people tend to exhibit healthier lifestyles, they also have a strong support system that secular people would not normally have.
A religious community can provide support especially through a stressful life event such as the death of a loved one or illness.
There is the belief that a higher power will provide healing and strength through the rough times which also can explain the lower mortality rate of religious people vs. secular people.
Some studies have examined whether there is a “religious personality.” Research suggests that people who identify as religious are more likely to be high on agreeableness and conscientiousness, and low on psychoticism, but unrelated to other Big Five traits.
However, people endorsing fundamentalist religious beliefs are more likely to be low on Openness.
Similarly, people who identify as spiritual are more likely to be high on Extraversion and Openness, although this varied based on the type of spirituality endorsed.
Evidence suggests that religiosity can be a pathway to both mental health and mental disorder.
For example, religiosity is positively associated with mental disorders that involve an excessive amount of self-control and negatively associated with mental disorders that involve a lack of self-control.
Other studies have found indications of mental health among both the religious and the secular.
For instance, Vilchinsky & Kravetz found negative correlations with psychological distress among religious and secular subgroups of Jewish students.
In addition, intrinsic religiosity has been inversely related to depression in the elderly, while extrinsic religiosity has no relation or even a slight positive relation to depression.
The link between religion and mental health may be due to the guiding framework or social support that it offers to individuals.
By these routes, religion has the potential to offer security and significance in life, as well as valuable human relationships, to foster mental health.
Some theorists have suggested that the benefits of religion and religiosity are accounted for by the social support afforded by membership in a religious group.
Religion may also provide coping skills to deal with stressors, or demands perceived as straining.
Pargament’s three primary styles of religious coping are 1) self-directing, characterized by self-reliance and acknowledgement of God, 2) deferring, in which a person passively attributes responsibility to God, and 3) collaborative, which involves an active partnership between the individual and God and is most commonly associated with positive adjustment.
This model of religious coping has been criticized for its over-simplicity and failure to take into account other factors, such as level of religiosity, specific religion, and type of stressor.
Additional work by Pargament involves a detailed delineation of positive and negative forms of religious coping, captured in the BREIF-RCOPE questionnaire which have been linked to a range of positive and negative psychological outcomes.
Spirituality has been ascribed many different definitions in different contexts, but a general definition is: an individual’s search for meaning and purpose in life.
Spirituality is distinct from organized religion in that spirituality does not necessarily need a religious framework.
That is, one does not necessarily need to follow certain rules, guidelines or practices to be spiritual, but an organized religion often has some combination of these in place.
People who report themselves to be spiritual people may not observe any specific religious practices or traditions.
Studies have shown a negative relationship between spiritual well-being and depressive symptoms.
In one study, those who were assessed to have a higher spiritual quality of life on a spiritual well-being scale had less depressive symptoms.
Cancer and AIDS patients who were more spiritual had lower depressive symptoms than religious patients.
Spirituality shows beneficial effects possibly because it speaks to one’s ability to intrinsically find meaning in life, strength, and inner peace, which is especially important for very ill patients.
Studies have reported beneficial effects of spirituality on the lives of patients with schizophrenia, major depression, and other psychotic disorders.
Schizophrenic patients were less likely to be re-hospitalized if families encouraged religious practice, and in depressed patients who underwent religiously based interventions, their symptoms improved faster than those who underwent secular interventions.
Furthermore, a few cross-sectional studies have shown that more religiously involved people had less instance of psychosis.
To investigate the salience of religious beliefs in establishing group identity, researchers have also conducted studies looking at religion and prejudice.
Some studies have shown that greater religious attitudes may be significant predictors of negative attitudes towards racial or social outgroups.
These effects are often conceptualized under the framework of intergroup bias, where religious individuals favor members of their ingroup (ingroup favoritism) and exhibit disfavor towards members of their outgroup (outgroup derogation).
Evidence supporting religious intergroup bias has been supported in multiple religious groups, including non-Christian groups, and is thought to reflect the role of group dynamics in religious identification.
Many studies regarding religion and prejudice implement religious priming both in the laboratory and in naturalistic settings with evidence supporting the perpetuation of ingroup favoritism and outgroup derogation in individuals who are high in religiosity.
Pascal Boyer is one of the leading figures in the cognitive psychology of religion, a new field of inquiry that is less than fifteen years old, which accounts for the psychological processes that underlie religious thought and practice.
In his book Religion Explained, Boyer shows that there is no simple explanation for religious consciousness.
Boyer is mainly concerned with explaining the various psychological processes involved in the acquisition and transmission of ideas concerning the gods.
Boyer builds on the ideas of cognitive anthropologists Dan Sperber and Scott Atran, who first argued that religious cognition represents a by-product of various evolutionary adaptations, including folk psychology, and purposeful violations of innate expectations about how the world is constructed (for example, bodiless beings with thoughts and emotions) that make religious cognitions striking and memorable.
Religious persons acquire religious ideas and practices through social exposure.
The child of a Zen Buddhist will not become an evangelical Christian or a Zulu warrior without the relevant cultural experience.
While mere exposure does not cause a particular religious outlook (a person may have been raised a Roman Catholic but leave the church), nevertheless some exposure seems required – this person will never invent Roman Catholicism out of thin air.
Boyer says cognitive science can help us to understand the psychological mechanisms that account for these manifest correlations and in so doing enable us to better understand the nature of religious belief and practice.
Boyer moves outside the leading currents in mainstream cognitive psychology and suggests that we can use evolutionary biology to unravel the relevant mental architecture.
Our brains are, after all, biological objects, and the best naturalistic account of their development in nature is Darwin's theory of evolution.
To the extent that mental architecture exhibits intricate processes and structures, it is plausible to think that this is the result of evolutionary processes working over vast periods of time.
Like all biological systems, the mind is optimised to promote survival and reproduction in the evolutionary environment.
On this view all specialised cognitive functions broadly serve those reproductive ends.
For Steven Pinker the universal propensity toward religious belief is a genuine scientific puzzle.
He thinks that adaptationist explanations for religion do not meet the criteria for adaptations.
An alternative explanation is that religious psychology is a by-product of many parts of the mind that evolved for other purposes.
The American psychologist James H. Leuba (1868–1946), in A Psychological Study of Religion, accounts for mystical experience psychologically and physiologically, pointing to analogies with certain drug-induced experiences.
Leuba argued forcibly for a naturalistic treatment of religion, which he considered to be necessary if religious psychology were to be looked at scientifically.
Shamans all over the world and in different cultures have traditionally used drugs, especially psychedelics, for their religious experiences.
In these communities the absorption of drugs leads to dreams (visions) through sensory distortion.
William James was also interested in mystical experiences from a drug-induced perspective, leading him to make some experiments with nitrous oxide and even peyote.
He concludes that while the revelations of the mystic hold true, they hold true only for the mystic; for others they are certainly ideas to be considered, but hold no claim to truth without personal experience of such.
The drugs used by religious communities for their hallucinogenic effects were adopted for explicit and implicit religious functions and purposes.
The drugs were and are reported to enhance religious experience through visions and a distortion of the sensory perception (like in dreams in a state of sleep).
The large variety of meditation techniques shares the common goal of shifting attention away from habitual or customary modes of thinking and perception, in order to permit experiencing in a different way.
Many religious and spiritual traditions that employ meditation assert that the world most of us know is an illusion.
This illusion is said to be created by our habitual mode of separating, classifying and labelling our perceptual experiences.
Meditation is empirical in that it involves direct experience.
However it is also subjective in that the meditative state can be directly known only by the experiencer, and may be difficult or impossible to fully describe in words.
Meditation can induce an altered state of consciousness characterised by a loss of awareness of extraneous stimuli, one-pointed attention to the meditation object to the exclusion of all other thoughts, and feelings of bliss.
For instance, Sigmund Freud viewed religion as an illusion, a sign of psychological neurosis.
Additionally Eric Fromm’s humanistic psychology centers on man and rejects authoritarian religion.
However, religious scholars and psychologists advocating the study of religion have contested such views.
Some religious figures argue that a psychological study of human personality necessitates, at minimum, an acknowledgment of the impact religion has on many humans.
A 2012 paper suggested that psychiatric conditions associated with psychotic spectrum symptoms may be possible explanations for revelatory driven experiences and activities such as those of Abraham, Moses, Jesus and Saint Paul.
Various forms of explicitly religious psychotherapies that maintain the traditional psychological framework have recently become more prevalent.
Clients’ religious beliefs are increasingly being considered in psychotherapy with the goal of improving service and effectiveness of treatment.
A resulting development was theistic psychotherapy.
Conceptually, it consists of theological principles, a theistic view of personality, and a theistic view of psychotherapy.
Following an explicit minimizing strategy, therapists attempt to minimize conflict by acknowledging their religious views while being respectful of client’s religious views.
This opens up the potential for therapists to directly utilize religious practices and principles in therapy, such as prayer, forgiveness, and grace.
One application of the psychology of religion is in pastoral psychology, the use of psychological findings to improve the pastoral care provided by pastors and other clergy, especially in how they support ordinary members of their congregations.
Pastoral psychology is also concerned with improving the practice of chaplains in healthcare and in the military.
One major concern of pastoral psychology is to improve the practice of pastoral counseling.
Pastoral psychology is a topic of interest for professional journals such as Pastoral Psychology, Journal of Psychology and Christianity, and Journal of Psychology and Theology.
In 1984, Thomas Oden severely criticized mid-20th century pastoral care and the pastoral psychology that guided it as having entirely abandoned its classical/traditional sources, and having become overwhelmingly dominated by modern psychological influences from Freud, Rogers, and others.
More recently, others have described pastoral psychology as a field that experiences a tension between psychology and theology.
Louis Berkhof (October 14 1873 – May 18 1957) was an American-Dutch Reformed theologian whose works on systematic theology have been influential in seminaries and Bible colleges in the United States and Canada and with individual Christians in general throughout the 20th century.
Berkhof was born in 1873 in Emmen in the Netherlands and moved in 1882 with his family to Grand Rapids (Michigan).
About the time he graduated from the seminary he married Reka Dijkhuis.
They had four children before her death in 1928.
He then married Dena Heyns-Joldersma who had two daughters.
In 1900, he graduated from Calvin Theological Seminary in Grand Rapids after which he was appointed pastor of the First Christian Reformed Church in Allendale Charter Township, Michigan.
Two years later he attended Princeton Theological Seminary where he earned his B.D.
in two years.
He returned to Grand Rapids to pastor Oakdale Park Church.
In 1906, he joined the faculty of Calvin Theological Seminary and taught there for almost four decades.
For the first 20 years he taught Biblical Studies until in 1926 he moved into the systematic theology department.
He became president of the seminary in 1931 and continued in that office until he retired in 1944.
Berkhof wrote twenty-two books during his career.
His main works are his Systematic Theology (1932, revised 1938) which was supplemented with an Introductory Volume to Systematic Theology (1932, which is included in the 1996 Eerdman's edition of Systematic Theology) and a separate volume entitled History of Christian Doctrines (1937).
He wrote a more concise version of his Systematic Theology for high school and college students entitled Manual of Christian Doctrine, and later wrote the even more concise Summary of Christian Doctrine.
He also delivered Princeton Theological Seminary's Stone Lectures in 1951.
These were published as The Kingdom of God.
In addition to this, he worked on many papers for the Christian Reformed Church as well as collections of sermons.
Berkhof was not known for being original or speculative but for being very good at organizing and explaining basic theological ideas following in the tradition of John Calvin, Abraham Kuyper and Herman Bavinck.
Theologian Wayne Grudem has called Berkhof's Systematic Theology "a great treasure-house of information and analysis [...] probably the most useful one-volume systematic theology available from any theological perspective."
Berkhof's writings continue to serve as systematic presentations of Reformed theology.
They are organized for use in seminaries and religious education as well as individual reference, though his systematics works are demanding reads.
Bishop John Richard Bryant, born on June 8, 1943, is the Senior Bishop and Presiding Prelate of the Fourth Episcopal District of the African Methodist Episcopal Church.
Bryant is the son of the late Bishop Harrison James and Edith Holland Bryant.
He was elected and consecrated the 106th Bishop of the African Methodist Episcopal Church at the 1988 General Conference in Fort Worth, Texas.
He earned his B.A.
degree in 1965 at Morgan State University, his M.Th.
degree in 1970 at the Boston University School of Theology, and his D.Min.
degree at the Colgate Rochester Divinity School in 1975.
Bryant also holds several Honorary Doctorates from Paul Quinn College, Wilberforce University, Payne Theological Seminary and Virginia Seminary.
He received the Outstanding Alumnus Award from both Boston University School of Theology and Morgan State University.
He was inducted into the Hall of Fame of his high school, Baltimore City College.
Bishop Bryant is the father of Dr. Jamal Harrison Bryant, pastor and founder of the Empowerment Temple AME Church in Baltimore, Maryland, and Dr. Thema Simone Bryant Davis.
Bishop Bryant and his wife, Reverend Dr. Cecilia Williams-Bryant, garnered a reputation for turning St. Paul A.M.E. Church in Cambridge, Massachusetts into what people called a "rocking church" because of their support of Pentecostal religious practices.
When assigned to Bethel A.M.E. Church in Baltimore, Maryland in 1975, the congregation grew to over several thousand members.
Again, the Bryants brought to Bethel a sense of Pentecostalism and 14 percent of the congregation reported that they regularly practiced glossalalia or "speaking in tongues" and 59 percent reported that they had the gifts of prophecy and/or divine healing.
Because of all this, Bishop Bryant is considered the father of Neo-Pentecostalism.
The architecture of Thailand is a major part of the country's cultural legacy and reflects both the challenges of living in Thailand's sometimes extreme climate as well as, historically, the importance of architecture to the Thai people's sense of community and religious beliefs.
Influenced by the architectural traditions of many of Thailand's neighbors, it has also developed significant regional variation within its vernacular and religious buildings.
The architecture of Tawaravadee appears in the central region of Thailand.
It used clay bricks and sometimes laterite.
The construction of pagodas had a square base and an inverted-bell shape topped with a spire.
The architecture of Sriwichai is notable for the stupa-style Buddha which has a square base and an octagonal top.
The architecture of Lopburi adopted the style of the Khmer and can be seen in the Shrines of Ganesh.
This style preferred to use brick, sandstone, and laterite.
Originally brick and sandstone were used to build houses or castles and laterite for bases.
Most religious places were built during the age of Chiang Saen.
The builders received and integrated art and culture from other territories such as Sukhothai, Tawaravadee, Sriwichai, and Burma.
The art of Sukhothai began in B.E.
1780 when King Indraditya established the Sukhothai Kingdom.
The identity of the architecture inSukhothai is decorations in order to display the Buddhist faith by building the buildings in symbolic shapes.
The architecture of Authong integrated the art of Tawaravadee and Khmer civilization such as the building style of Phra Prang in Wat Sri Rattana Mahathat, Lopburi.
The identity of architecture in this period is designed to display might and riches so it has great size and appearance.
The temples in Ayutthaya seldom built eaves stretching from the masterhead.
The dominant feature of this style is sunlight shining into buildings.
During the latter part of the Ayutthaya period, architecture was regarded as a peak achievement that responded to the requirements of people and expressed the gracefulness of Thainess.
But the development of architecture had to stop because Ayutthaya as defeated in the war in Burma in B.E.2310.
As the phrase "Thai stilt house" suggests, one universal aspect of Thailand's traditional architecture is the elevation of its buildings on stilts, most commonly to around head height.
The area beneath the house is used for storage, crafts, lounging in the daytime, and sometimes for livestock.
The houses were raised due to heavy flooding during certain parts of the year, and in more ancient times, predators.
Thai building and living habits are often based on superstitious and religious beliefs.
Many other considerations such as locally available materials, climate, and agriculture have a lot to do with the style.
Thai houses are made from a variety of wood and are often built in just a day as prefabricated wood panels are built ahead of time and put together on site by a master builder.
Many houses are also built with bamboo, a material that is easily constructed and does not require professional builders.
Most homes start out as a single family home and when a daughter gets married, an additional house is built on site to accommodate her new family.
Although the house is built with prefab panels that are easy to rearrange, there are taboos against rearranging a house.
A traditional house is usually built as a cluster of physically separate rooms arranged around a large central terrace.
The terrace is the largest singular part of the home as it makes up to 40% of the square footage, and up to 60% if the veranda is included.
An area in the middle of the terrace is often left open to allow the growth of a tree through the structure, providing welcome shade.
The tree chosen is often flowering or scented.
It is important for the Thai people to draw in their natural surroundings by placing potted plants around the terrace.
In the past there were strict taboos regarding which plants could be placed directly around the house (in current times these are often ignored for the sake of aesthetics).
The level of the floor changes as one moves from room to terrace, providing a wide variety of positions for sitting or lounging around the living areas.
Furniture is sparse and includes a bed platform, dining table, and loose cushions for sitting.
Sleeping areas are set up so that the beds are aligned with the shorter end of the room (as sleeping parallel with the length is similar to lying in a coffin).
The direction that the head points towards can never be the west as that is the position bodies are laid in before cremation.
A kuti is a small structure, built on stilts, designed to house a monk.
Its proper size is defined in the Sanghathisep, Rule 6, to be 12 by 7 keub (or 4.013 by 2.343 meters).
This tiny footprint is intended to aid the monk's spiritual journey by discouraging the accumulation of material goods.
Typically a monastery consists of a number of these buildings grouped together on a shared terrace, either in an inward facing cluster or aligned in a row.
Often these structures included a separate building, called a hor trai, used to store scriptures.
Thailand features a large number of Buddhist temples, a reflection of the country's widespread Buddhist traditions.
Although the term wat is properly used to refer only to a Buddhist site with resident monks, it is applied loosely in practice and will typically refer to any place of worship other than the Islamic mosques found in southern Thailand.
A sala Thai is an open pavilion used as a meeting place and to protect people from sun and rain.
Most are open on all four sides.
<gallery> File:Chedi at Wat Kuu Kham, Chiang Mai, Thailand-KayEss-1.j Houses are one of the essential factors in people's lives.
According to Nuttinee Karnchanaporn, "The house always has been the first line of defence against dangers and threats".
She argues that how Thai houses are built and how they are lived in can reveal a lot about "cultural fear".
The Thai notion of fear centres on the "spiritual world" such as "ghosts, unseen forces, and evil spirits".
Thai people heavily rely on "supernatural powers" for protection in the domestic setting.
Thai traditional houses are built in accordance with three ancient principles: "material preparation, construction, and dwelling" (Phraya Anumanrajathon, quoted in Karnchanaporn).
Materials, including site and orientation, the taste and smell of soil, and the names of trees that will be used to build houses and so on, will be carefully chosen.
Second, the construction must be done mindfully.
For instance, only a person of acknowledged spiritual power is allowed to perform a ritual when the first column is put into the ground.
The time allotted for that ritual needs to be precisely calculated and fixed.
Similarly, construction of the guardian spirit house and proper conduct of the housewarming ceremony are also essential.
The third principle is proper behaviour in the completed house.
For example, the threshold is believed to be inhabited by "a household guardian spirit", therefore, stepping on it is prohibited.
If residents of the house do not follow this precept, spiritual protection will disappear.
Another example is that if someone sleeps under the girders, it is believed that ghosts will cause them difficulty in breathing.
Taken together, all of these observances serve the purpose of making houses sacred places and pleasing "good" spirits in order to receive their protection against "bad" spirits.
In recent times, building houses following traditional rituals has diminished in popularity due to Western influences.
Nevertheless, Thais still recognize the concept of making domestic places sacred.
Karnchanaporn explained that in the past, house sanctification rituals were normally observed automatically, and the ways of performing them were passed to younger generations.
House owners in those felt protected, given the complicated traditional practices.
In contrast, modern people believe that "improper ritual can pollute spiritual protection" and thus, can lead to disaster.
Some people try to change the rituals to fit their lifestyle.
For instance, an owner does not use the guardian spirit house, but instead decides to use the threshold as an alternative offering place.
Another owner does not perform any rituals at all, as she is afraid that performing the rituals improperly might cause problems.
Instead, she just prays to the spirits to show her gratitude for their protection.
All in all, Karnchanaporn argues that domestic sanctification is "double-edged", and can be both a benefit and a snare.
On the one hand, it assuages peoples' fears of unknown forces.
On the other hand, it falsely encourages people not to take responsibility for bad consequences caused by their own actions in their houses.
Dawud 'Abu Talha' Burbank was a British Muslim who adhered to the Salafi methodology of Islam.
He translated numerous Arabic texts and books into English and also lectured on Islamic subjects.
He died in 2011 while in transit to perform the annual hajj when the bus he was riding on became engulfed in flames.
Dawud ‘Abu Talha’ Burbank was born on October 20, 1963 in Coalville, Leicestershire England into a Christian family.
He converted to Islam at the age of 19 and studied at the University of Madinah in Saudi Arabia in the mid to late 1980’s where he acquired fluency in the Arabic language.
Burbank was a Salafi Muslim  involved in translating treatises and books of Salafi scholars upon his return to Britain and was involved in the activities of ‘Jam’iyat Ihya’ Minhaj al-Sunnah (JIMAS) (translated as: Association to Revive the Way of the Messenger) until the end of 1995 when the organization splintered along pro and anti-Saudi government lines.
Burbank, along with Abu Khadeejah Abdul Wahid led  the side that remained quietist towards the government of Saudi Arabia, temporarily creating an organization called ‘Organization of Ahl al Sunnah Islamic Societies’ or OASIS which then quickly became ‘Salafi Publications’.
Burbank “translated many Arabic texts” in this time that reinforced their objective that “correcting religious belief and practice among British Muslims was more important than political reform”.
Burbank was described by the local newspaper as a pre-eminent translator of religious texts at his mosque and is said to have translated more than 60 books from Arabic into the English language.
According to the Salafi Mosque director, Abu Khadeejah Abdul-Wahid, Burbank “was well known and probably the best Arabic to English language translators in the entire West.” As well, actively researching for translations, Burbank was “a senior lecturer”  at the Salafi Mosque in Small Heath within the city of Birmingham.
Burbank and his wife, Khalida Begum Dost, died on the 1st of November 2011 in ihram when the coach they were travelling on from Jeddah International Airport to the city of Mecca in Saudi Arabia caught fire.
Burbank and his wife’s funeral prayer was conducted in the Masjid al Haram mosque in Mecca after the morning Fajr prayer the day after their death.
They left behind eight children.
Ian Thomas Henderson (born 24 October 1940) is a former Australian politician.
He was born in Brisbane to Walter Henderson and Lilian Florence May, née Kennedy.
He attended state schools at Tin Can Bay, Mooloolaba and Mount Gravatt and then Cavendish Road State High School.
He studied at Kelvin Grove Teachers College (Certificate of Teaching), at the University of Queensland (BA, B.Ed, M.Ed.St) and at the University of New England (Litt.B); he also received an Associate Diplomat of Theology from the Australian College of Theology in Melbourne and a Doctorate of Religious Education at the International Bible Institute in Plymouth, Florida.
A school teacher from 1962, he became subject master at Mount Gravatt High School in 1977 and deputy principal of Indooroopilly and Springwood high schools from 1980 to 1984.
A member of the National Party, he was elected to the Queensland Legislative Assembly as the member for Mount Gravatt in 1983.
He was promoted to the front bench as Minister for Justice and Corrective Services in October 1989, but he lost his seat in the election in December at which Labor defeated the National Party.
The religion in Liechtenstein is predominantly Roman Catholic, with a minority of Protestants, non-adherents, and adherents of other religions.
Liechtenstein has a small Muslim population, composed mainly of immigrants from countries like Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, and Turkey.
Liechtenstein is a small, landlocked country located in the Alpine region of Europe.
As of 2002, 83.9% of Liechtenstein's population is Christian.
In terms of religious demographics, 76% follow Catholicism, 7% follow Protestant Christianity, 4.2% follow Islam, 0.8% follow Orthodox Christianity, and 12% are either nonreligious or adherents of other faiths.
In Liechtenstein, 44% of Muslims, 23% of Catholic Christians, and 24% of non-Catholic Christians regularly participate in weekly religious services.
The Roman Catholic Church, as written in the Constitution of Liechtenstein, is the official state religion of Liechtenstein.
The constitution declares that the Catholic Church is "the State Church and as such shall enjoy the full protection of the State."
Liechtenstein offers protection to adherents of all religious beliefs, and considers the "religious interests of the people" a priority of the government.
In Liechtenstein schools, although exceptions are allowed, religious education in Catholicism or Protestantism is legally required.
Tax exemption is granted by the government to religious organizations.
According to the Pew Research Center, social conflict caused by religious hostilities is ranked low in Liechtenstein, and so is the amount of government restriction on the practice of religion.
Before 1997, within the Roman Catholic church, the principality was part of the Swiss Diocese of Chur.
Reforms aimed at diminishing the influence of the Catholic Church on Liechtenstein's government have been supported by Prince Hans-Adam II.
Spiritual self-schema therapy, sometimes referred to as 3-S, is designed to teach skills to individuals with HIV that will both promote living a spiritual life aiding in their recovery and help reduce the spread of HIV.
Spiritual self-schema therapy can use both contemporary cognitive-therapy and various religious practices.
The term self-schema describes a mental process to aim in understanding and organizing incoming information (stimuli).
An example would include looking in your rearview mirror while driving and seeing flashing lights - typically an individual has an automatic response and prepares to pull over with out having to think.
This illustrates a well-organized schema on "flashing lights".
The connection between self-schema and spiritual self-schema therapy is shown in the automatic beliefs about oneself.
An individual doesn't have to stop and think "Who am I?
How would somebody like that respond to this situation?"
If an individual is shy and believes they are ugly, they may see somebody looking in their direction and assume the person is staring at how ugly they are, when in reality they could be finding the person quite attractive or even not looking at them at all.
Yale School of Medicine has started a program called 3-S, signifying Spiritual Self-Schema.
Self-schemas can be helpful, but they can also be problematic.
Additionally, people who believe that they are "bad, worthless, or unlovable" do significant amounts of mental damage to themselves.
Yale School of Medicine's 3-S program promotes spirituality as a strong resource for coping with life's troubles.
The goal of its program is to create a path to enhance one's spiritual nature.
There is a growing trend in attempting to integrate spiritual and religious beliefs into HIV prevention and addition treatment.
Spiritual self-schema therapy is one such attempt.
Spiritual self-schema therapy enables a cognitive shift from the habitual "addict" self-schema to the "spiritual" self-schema.
This new schema carries various harm reduction beliefs and behaviors.
This switch has been illustrated, according to a study conducted by Margolin, et al., to provide "greater decreases in impulsivity and intoxicant use" as well as an increase in "spiritual practices and motivation for abstinence, HIV prevention and medication adherence."
The Kirāta ( ) is a generic term in Sanskrit literature for people who lived in the mountains, particularly in the Himalayas and North-East India and who are believed to have been Mongoloid in origin.
They are mentioned along with Cinas (Chinese), and were different from the Nishadas.
They are first mentioned in the Yajurveda (Shukla XXX.16; Krisha III.4,12,1), and in the Atharvaveda (X.4,14) .
In Manu's Dharmashastra (X.44) they are mentioned as degraded Kshatriyas, but outside the ambit of Brahminical influence.
It is speculated that the term is a Sanskritization of a Tibeto-Burman tribal name, like that of Kirant or Kiranti of eastern Nepal.
In the Periplus, the Kirata are called Kirradai, who are the same people as the Pliny's Scyrites and Aelian's Skiratai; though Ptolemy does not name them, he does mention their land which is called Kirradia.
They are characterized as barbaric in their ways, Mongoloid in appearance speaking a Tibeto-Burmese language.
The Sesatai, who were the source of Malabathron, are similar to the Kirradai&mdash;they are not just short and flat-faced, but also shaggy and white.
Mythology gives an indication of their geographical position.
In the Mahabharata, Bhima meets the Kiratas to the east of Videha, where his son Ghatotkacha is born; and in general the dwellers of the Himalayas, especially the eastern Himalayas, were called Kiratas.
In general they are mentioned as "gold-like", or yellow, unlike the Nishadas or the Dasas, who were dark.
In Yoga Vasistha 1.15.5 Rama speaks of kirAteneva vAgurA, "a trap [laid] by Kiratas", so about 10th century BCE , they were thought of as jungle trappers, the ones who dug pits to capture roving deer.
The same text also speaks of King Suraghu, the head of the Kiratas who is a friend of the Persian King, Parigha.
Sylvain Lévi (1985) concluded that Kirata was a general term used by the Hindus of the plains to designate the Tibeto-Burman speaking groups of the Himalayas and Northeast.
The Kirat people practice shamanism but they call it "Kirat religion".
The Kiratis follow Kirat Mundhum.
Their holy text is the Mundhum.
Kirat Rai worship nature and their ancestors.
Animism and shamanism and belief in their primeval ancestors, Sumnima and Paruhang are their cultural and religious practices.
The names of some of their festivals are Sakela, Sakle, Tashi, Sakewa, Saleladi Bhunmidev, Chyabrung, Yokwa and Folsyandar.
They have two main festivals: Sakela/Sakewa Ubhauli during plantation season and Sakela/Sakewa Udhauli during the time of harvest.
Mundhum (also known as Peylan) is the religious scripture and folk literature of the Kirat people of Nepal, central to Kirat Mundhum.
Mundhum means "the power of great strength" in the Kirati language.
The Mundhum covers many aspects of the Kirat culture, customs and traditions that existed before Vedic civilisation in Nepal.
Church of the Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah, 508 U.S. 520 (1993), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that an ordinance passed in Hialeah, Florida, forbidding the "unnecessar[y]" killing of "an animal in a public or private ritual or ceremony not for the primary purpose of food consumption", was unconstitutional.
The law was enacted soon after the city council of Hialeah learned that the Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, which practiced Santería, a religion whose rituals sometimes demand animal sacrifice, was planning on locating there.
The church filed a lawsuit in United States district court for the Southern District of Florida, seeking for the Hialeah ordinance to be declared unconstitutional.
Adhering to Employment Division v. Smith, the lower courts deemed the law to have a legitimate and rational government purpose and therefore upheld the enactment.
The Supreme Court, however, held that the ordinances were neither neutral nor generally applicable: rather, they applied exclusively to the church.
Because the law was targeted at Santería, the Court held, it was not subject to an undemanding rational basis test.
Rather, the nature of the case was held to mandate a standard of strict scrutiny: state action had to be justified by a compelling governmental interest, and be narrowly tailored to advance that interest.
Because the ordinance suppressed more religious conduct than was necessary to achieve its stated ends, it was deemed unconstitutional, with Justice Anthony Kennedy stating in the decision, “religious beliefs need not be acceptable, logical, consistent or comprehensible to others in order to merit First Amendment protection”.
Somewhat similarly in 2009, a freedom of religion case related to animal sacrifice was taken to the 5th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals in the case of Jose Merced, President Templo Yoruba Omo Orisha Texas, Inc., v. City of Euless.
The court ruled that the Merced case of the freedom of exercise of religion was meritorious and prevailing and that Merced was entitled under the Texas Religious Freedom and Restoration Act (TRFRA) to an injunction preventing the city of Euless, Texas from enforcing its ordinances that burdened his religious practices relating to the use of animals, (see Tex.
Code § 110.005(a)(2)) without the court having to reach his claims under the First and Fourteenth Amendments.
In Ireland, a National school is a type of primary school that is financed directly by the State, but administered jointly by the State, a patron body, and local representatives.
There are other forms of primary school, often private denominational schools attached to secondary schools – unlike their second level counterparts, these primary level private schools receive no support from the state.
In National schools, most major policies such as the curriculum and teacher salaries and conditions are managed by the State through the Department of Education and Skills.
Minor policies of the school are managed by local people, often directed by a member of the clergy, as representative of the patron, through a local board of management.
Most primary schools in Ireland fall into this category, which is a pre-independence concept.
It was formerly common for national-school teachers to use the post-nominal letters N.T.
National schools, established by the British Government with the Stanley Letter in 1831, were originally multi-denominational.
The schools were controlled by a State body, the National Board of Education, with a six-member board consisting of two Roman Catholics, two Church of Ireland, and two Presbyterians.
In the National Schools, there was strict delimitation between religious and non-religious education, where the teacher had to declare that religious education was beginning, hang a sign on the wall or door indicating that religious education was in process, and remove all religious symbols and objects from sight when religious education finished.
Also, parents had the right to remove their children from this period of religious education if it conflicted with their religious beliefs.
Lastly, schools who failed to abide by these rules or who refused admissions of different faiths to the patron were denied state funding.
These rules largely remain in place today, but are no longer well recognised by the State, the patron bodies, or the general public.
In the early nineteenth century, in a climate of animosity between the churches, the multi-denominational system was strongly opposed: the established church (Protestant Church of Ireland), though the church of the minority, held a special position and a right to government support in promoting Protestantism.
Both the Roman Catholic Church, which was emerging from a period of suppression, and the Presbyterians, who had also suffered under the penal laws, had sought state support for schools of their own tradition.
In particular Bishop James Doyle was an early proponent, seeking to improve on the informal hedge school system.Doyle spoke before a Parliamentary Committee as follows: I do not see how any man wishing well to the public peace, and who looks to Ireland as his country, can think that peace can be permanently established, or the prosperity of the country ever well secured, if children are separated at the commencement of life on account of their religious opinions.
This is how he sees it from a political point of view.
Separate schools would endanger the public peace, which is not yet permanent.
The prosperity of the country also depends on keeping children together.
Then he deals with the effect of separation on the children themselves.
I do not know of any measures that would prepare the way for better feeling in Ireland than uniting children at an early age, and bringing them up in the same school, leading them to commune with one another and to form those little intimacies and friendships which subsist through life.
Children thus united know and love each other as children brought up together always will and to separate them is I think, to destroy some of the finest feelings in the hearts of men.
In 1831, Earl Stanley, Chief Secretary for Ireland, in a letter to the Duke of Leinster, outlined the new State supported system of primary education (this letter remains today the legal basis of the system).
The two legal pillars of the National School system were to be (i) children of all religious denominations to be taught together in the same school, with (ii) separate religious instruction.
There was to be no hint of proselytism in this new school system.
The new system, initially well supported by the religious denominations, quickly lost support of the Churches.
However, the population showed great enthusiasm and flocked to attend these new National Schools.
In the second half of the nineteenth century, first the Catholic Church, and later the Protestant churches conceded to the state, and accepted the "all religious denominations together" legal position.
Where possible, parents sent their children of a National School under the local management of their particular Church.
The result was that by the end of the nineteenth century the system had become increasingly denominational, with individuals choosing to attend schools primarily catering to children of their own religion.
However, the legal position de jure, that all national schools are multi-denominational, remains to this day.
Although, since the establishment of the Free State consistent pressure has been exerted by the Catholic Church to drop the multi-denominational legal position, this has never been conceded by the state.
A report was submitted to government in 1953 showing more than 90% of the schools were attended by only one denomination – that most National Schools were de facto denominational.
Changes in the Rules for National Schools were introduced in 1965 and 1973 allowing for the first time integration of religious education into the curriculum.
Today, following many years of immigration (for the first time in Ireland), a large majority of the National Schools cater for more than one religion.
Today National Schools are both de jure and de facto multi-denominational.
The Invisible Pink Unicorn (IPU) is the goddess of a parody religion used to satirize theistic beliefs, taking the form of a unicorn that is paradoxically both invisible and pink.
She is a rhetorical illustration used by atheists and other religious skeptics as a contemporary version of Russell's teapot, sometimes mentioned in conjunction with the Flying Spaghetti Monster.
The IPU is used to argue that supernatural beliefs are arbitrary by, for example, replacing the word God in any theistic statement with Invisible Pink Unicorn.
The mutually exclusive attributes of pinkness and invisibility, coupled with the inability to disprove the IPU's existence, satirize properties that some theists attribute to a theistic deity.
The IPU seems to have become notable primarily through online culture: in addition to alt.atheism, where IPU still frequently comes up in discussions, there are now a number of web sites dedicated to her.
The earliest documented reference to the IPU was on July 7, 1990, on the Usenet discussion group alt.atheism.
Other sources concerning IPU state that she was "revealed to us" on alt.atheism.
The concept was further developed by a group of college students from 1994 to 1995 on the ISCA Telnet-based BBS.
The students created a manifesto that detailed a nonsensical (yet internally consistent) religion based on a multitude of invisible pink unicorns.
It is from this document that the most famous quotation concerning IPUs originated: <blockquote> Invisible Pink Unicorns are beings of great spiritual power.
We know this because they are capable of being invisible and pink at the same time.
Like all religions, the Faith of the Invisible Pink Unicorns is based upon both logic and faith.
We have faith that they are pink; we logically know that they are invisible because we can't see them.
It is common when discussing the Invisible Pink Unicorn to point out that because she is invisible, no one can prove that she does not exist (or indeed that she is not pink).
This is a parody of similar theistic claims about God—that God, as creator of the universe, is not subject to its laws and thus not physically detecting him tells us nothing about his existence or lack thereof.
The Invisible Pink Unicorn is an illustration which attempts to demonstrate the absurdity of citing attributes and a lack of evidence as proof of a deity's existence.
Her two defining attributes, invisibility and color (pink), are inconsistent and contradictory; this is part of the satire.
The paradox of something being invisible yet having visible characteristics (e.g., color) is reflected in some East Asian cultures, wherein an "invisible red string" is said to connect people who have a shared or linked destiny.
There are humorous mock debates amongst her "followers" concerning her other attributes, such as whether she is completely invisible, or invisible to most, but visible to those who have faith in her (bearing similarities to "The Emperor's New Clothes").
Some arguments are quite elaborate and tortuous, satirizing the disputatiousness and intricacy of the theological debates that occur in many religions.
The Invisible Pink Unicorn is also used to de-deify religious texts.
The goal is to have the reader experience the text without heavily loaded concepts that many readers will associate with omnipotence, or will read with an unquestioned faith.
It is argued that when someone re-reads the same text with all direct references to God replaced with the Invisible Pink Unicorn, the reader may see the text in a new and more critical way: In 1996, a unicorn that no one can see was adapted as a teaching device at Camp Quest, the first free-thought summer camp for children established in the United States, by Dr. L. Wilson.
As reported years later in the July 21, 2006 Cincinnati Enquirer, "Campers must try to prove that imaginary unicorns—as a metaphor for God—don't exist."
Richard Dawkins alluded to unicorns in this connection in his 2006 book The God Delusion, writing that "Russell's teapot, of course, stands for an infinite number of things whose existence is conceivable and cannot be disproved.
[...] A philosophical favorite is the invisible, intangible, inaudible unicorn."
In the essay The Dragon in my Garage from the book The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle In the Dark, Carl Sagan uses the example of an invisible dragon breathing heatless fire that someone claims lives in his garage.
The supposed dragon cannot be seen, heard, or sensed in any way, nor does it leave footprints.
There is no reason to believe this purported dragon exists.
Abel and Schaefer have written that the concept of the Invisible Pink Unicorn only critiques religious belief, ignoring the social activities and social commitments involved in religious practice.
Tanzeem ul Makatib is an organization devoted to religious awareness among the Shiites in India for educationbased in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh.
The organization currently runs 1165 educational units (Maktab/Schools) in 38 of the provinces of India.
Over 1898 teachers including 295 pesh namaz are imparting education to 46,745 children with utmost devotion and zeal.
Specially designed syllabus is designed for these schools.The organization also runs higher religious education centers, viz.
Jamiya Imamia (for boys), Jameatuz Zahra (for girls) and a chain of Khadeejatul Kubra Madrasas (for college going girls desirous of religious education).
These centers follow Hauza Syllabus.
Religious educational conferences are organised by it on district, regional and provincial level.
These conferences serve as short-term training camps.
These conferences are not held at any fixed or permanent place but their venues are changed from time to time, so that more and more population of Shia community people can take benefit.
Sayed Safi Haidar is the current secretary of Tanzeemul Makatib.
Tanzeemul Makatib publishes various Islamic magazines too.
Rev.
Robert P. Imbelli (born January 8, 1939) is a Christian Theologian and priest of the Archdiocese of New York.. </ref> He has taught theology at the New York Archdiocesan Seminary and at the Maryknoll School of Theology.
Currently, Father Imbelli is an associate professor of Theology at Boston College in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts.
Father Imbelli graduated from Fordham University in 1960.
In 1966, he went on to receive his S.T.L.
at the Gregorian University in Rome, Italy.
While in Rome, Imbelli was ordained.
Father Imbelli's years of theological study in Rome coincided with the Second Vatican Council.
The Second Vatican Council was a movement to, "throw open the windows of the Church, updating and rejuvenating it by returning to the gospel basics, offering a greater openness to the world, and promoting greater unity among the divided Christian family and with all of humanity."
This time of revolutionary change would forever shape Imbelli's approach to Theology and drive him to question and improve the Church.
Imbelli soon graduated from Yale University in 1972 with a Ph.D. in Systematic theology.
Following his graduation from Yale University, Imbelli continued his teaching at St. Joseph's Seminary as a professor of Systematic Theology.
Leaving St. Joseph's, Imbelli continued his teaching at the Maryknoll School of Theology.
Finally in 1986, Father Imbelli landed a leadership position as Director of the Institute of Religious Education and Pastoral Ministry at Boston College.
In 1993, he stepped down from this position and has remained an associate professor of Theology ever since.
In addition to teaching, Imbelli has been a prolific contributor to journals and magazines like Commonweal, America, and L'Osservatore Romano.
He also edited and contributed to a book Handing on the Faith: the Church's Mission and Challenge in 2006.
In addition to his frequent articles, he maintains an almost daily updated blog on Commonweal.
In 2007 Imbelli's book Handing on the Faith: the Church's Mission and Challenge received "Third Place for Books in Theology," by the Catholic Press Association.
He also received the Theron Rockwell Field Prize for his Doctoral Dissertation in 1973.
Imbelli has a special research interest for Christology and Trinitarian Theology.
Imbelli understands the many challenges facing Christology.
He affirms the Council of Chalcedon's belief that Jesus was,"perfect [Greek teleion] in divinity, perfect in humanity, truly God and truly human, of a rational soul and body."
While affirming this belief, he also recognizes its many issues.
In a world where archeological discoveries are undermining the divinity of Christ, Jesus is left as simply human.
Imbelli claims that the, "challenge before us all, not only theologians, but preachers and parents, artists and educators, is to rekindle in our day and place the Christic imagination: to appropriate and extend Vatican II's confident confession that Jesus is "the light of the nations" (Lumen Gentium, No.
1), that he is "the mediator and fullness of all revelation" (Dei Verbum, No.
2) and that the Holy Spirit offers to everyone "the possibility of being associated with Christ's paschal mystery" (Gaudium et Spes, No.
22)."
It is ultimately up to all to reaffirm the divinity as well as the humanity of Jesus Christ.
Imbelli's book, Handing on the Faith: the Church's Mission and Challenge, represents a collection of essays discussing the problems facing the Church.
The different contributor's chapters address issues like Religious Education, Community-Based Faith Formation, Identity and Individualism, Communication and even future problems.
Imbelli writes a thought provoking introduction to get the ball rolling on tackling these tough issues.
Avery Dulles commented in saying, "The Church is faced by no more serious problem than that of handing on the faith to the young.
Recognizing current failures, Boston College recently assembled a distinguished group of Catholic scholars and educators, whose considered reflections are presented by the essays in this volume.
The series closes with a summons to hope and courage evoking the spirit of Pope John Paul II.
The authors seem to agree that teachers of Catholic doctrine can succeed if they are joyful witnesses to the Lord as he continues to dwell in the community of faith."
He acknowledges the difficulties of passing on the faith to the next generation.
His editing and collaboration with others starts an important discussion not only to bring to light these serious problems, but also to solve them.
Cognitive science of religion is the study of religious thought and behavior from the perspective of the cognitive and evolutionary sciences.
The field employs methods and theories from a very broad range of disciplines, including: cognitive psychology, evolutionary psychology, cognitive anthropology, artificial intelligence, cognitive neuroscience, neurobiology, zoology, and ethology.
Scholars in this field seek to explain how human minds acquire, generate, and transmit religious memes by means of ordinary cognitive capacities.
Although religion has been the subject of serious scientific study since at least the late nineteenth century, the study of religion as a cognitive phenomenon is relatively recent.
While it often relies upon earlier research within anthropology of religion and sociology of religion, cognitive science of religion considers the results of that work within the context of evolutionary and cognitive theories.
As such, cognitive science of religion was only made possible by the cognitive revolution of the 1950s and the development, starting in the 1970s, of sociobiology and other approaches explaining human behaviour in evolutionary terms, especially evolutionary psychology.
While Dan Sperber foreshadowed cognitive science of religion in his 1975 book Rethinking Symbolism, the earliest research to fall within the scope of the discipline was published during the 1980s.
Among this work, Stewart E. Guthrie's "A cognitive theory of religion" Current Anthropology 21 (2) 1980 was significant for examining the significance of anthropomorphism within religion, work that ultimately led to the development of the concept of the hyperactive agency detection device – a key concept within cognitive science of religion.
The real beginning of cognitive science of religion can be dated to the 1990s, however.
During that decade a large number of highly influential books and articles were published which helped to lay the foundations of cognitive science of religion.
These included Rethinking Religion: Connecting Cognition and Culture and Bringing Ritual to Mind: Psychological Foundations of Cultural Forms, written by E. Thomas Lawson and Robert McCauley, Naturalness of Religious Ideas by Pascal Boyer, as well as Guthrie's book-length development of his theories in Faces in the Clouds.
In the 1990s, these and other researchers, who had been working independently in a variety of different disciplines, discovered each other's work and found valuable parallels between their approaches, with the result that something of a self-aware research tradition began to coalesce.
By 2000, the field was well-enough defined for E. Thomas Lawson to coin the term 'cognitive science of religion' in his article "Toward a cognitive science of religion" Numen 47.
Since 2000, cognitive science of religion has grown, similarly to other approaches that apply evolutionary thinking to sociological phenomena.
Each year more researchers become involved in the field, with theoretical and empirical developments proceeding at a very rapid pace.
The field remains somewhat loosely defined, bringing together as it does researchers who come from a variety of different traditions.
Much of the cohesion in the field comes not from shared detailed theoretical commitments but from a general willingness to view religion in cognitive and evolutionary terms as well as from the willingness to engage with the work of the others developing this field.
A vital role in bringing together researchers is played by the International Association for the Cognitive Science of Religion, formed in 2006.
Despite a lack of agreement concerning the theoretical basis for work in cognitive science of religion, it is possible to outline some tendencies.
Most significant of these is reliance upon the theories developed within evolutionary psychology.
That particular approach to evolutionary explanations of human behaviour is particularly suitable to the cognitive byproduct explanation of religion that is most popular among cognitive scientists of religion.
This is because of the focus on byproduct and ancestral trait explanations within evolutionary psychology.
A particularly significant concept associated with this approach is modularity of mind, used as it is to underpin accounts of the mental mechanisms seen to be responsible for religious beliefs.
Important examples of work that falls under this rubric are provided by research carried out by Pascal Boyer and Justin L. Barrett.
These theoretical commitments are not shared by all cognitive scientists of religion, however.
Ongoing debates regarding the comparative advantages of different evolutionary explanations for human behaviour find a reflection within cognitive science of religion with dual inheritance theory recently gaining adherents among researchers in the field, including Armin Geertz and Ara Norenzayan.
The perceived advantage of this theoretical framework is its ability to deal with more complex interactions between cognitive and cultural phenomena, but it comes at the cost of experimental design having to take into consideration a richer range of possibilities.
The view that religious beliefs and practices should be understood as nonfunctional but as produced by human cognitive mechanisms that are functional outside of the context of religion.
Examples of this are the hyperactive agent detection device and the minimally counterintuitive concepts  or the process of initiation  explaining buddhism and taoism.
The cognitive byproduct explanation of religion is an application of the concept of spandrel (biology) and of the concept of exaptation explored by Stephen Jay Gould among others.
Concepts that mostly fit human preconceptions but break with them in one or two striking ways.
These concepts are both easy to remember (thanks to the counterintuitive elements) and easy to use (thanks to largely agreeing with what people expect).
Examples include talking trees and noncorporeal agents.
Pascal Boyer argues that many religious entities fit into this category.
Upal  lablled the fact that minimally counterintuitive ideas are better remembered than intuitive and maximally counterintuitive ideas as the minimal counterintuitiveness effect or the MCI-effect.
Postulated mental mechanism whose function is to identify the activity of agents.
Given the relative costs of failing to spot an agent, the mechanism is said to be hyperactive, producing a large number of false positive errors.
Stewart E. Guthrie and others have claimed these errors can explain the appearance of supernatural concepts.
According to the prosocial adaptation account of religion, religious beliefs and practices should be understood as having the function of eliciting adaptive prosocial behaviour and avoiding the freeloader problem.
Within the cognitive science of religion this approach is primarily pursued by Richard Sosis.
David Sloan Wilson is another major proponent of this approach and interprets religion as a group-level adaptation, but his work is generally seen as falling outside the cognitive science of religion.
Practices that, due to their inherent cost, can be relied upon to provide an honest signal regarding the intentions of the agent.
Richard Sosis has suggested that religious practices can be explained as costly signals of the willingness to cooperate.
A similar line of argument has been pursued by Lyle Steadman and Craig Palmer.
In the context of cognitive science of religion, dual inheritance theory can be understood as attempting to combine the cognitive byproduct and prosocial adaptation accounts using the theoretical approach developed by Robert Boyd and Peter Richerson, among others.
The basic view is that while belief in supernatural entities is a cognitive byproduct, cultural traditions have recruited such beliefs to motivate prosocial behaviour.
A sophisticated statement of this approach can be found in Scott Atran and Joseph Henrich (2010) "The Evolution of Religion: How Cognitive By-Products, Adaptive Learning Heuristics, Ritual Displays, and Group Competition Generate Deep Commitments to Prosocial Religions" Biological Theory 5.1.
Researchers in the field include: Writers on this topic include:
The Boston College School of Theology and Ministry in Brighton, Massachusetts, United States, is the graduate divinity school of Boston College and an ecclesiastical faculty of theology that trains men and women, both lay and religious, for service, especially within the Roman Catholic Church.
The school is operated by the Jesuits.
Founded in 1922 as Weston College in the Massachusetts town of Weston, the school was integrated into Boston College in 1959.
In 1974, Weston College became independent but coordinated with Boston College under the Boston Theological Institute.
In 1975, Weston College was renamed to Weston School of Theology and operated from facilities in Cambridge, Massachusetts in a cooperative arrangement with the Episcopal Divinity School.
In 1994, the school was renamed to Weston Jesuit School of Theology.
In December 2004, Boston College announced plans to create a School of Theology and Ministry by merging the Institute for Religious Education and Pastoral Ministry and the Weston Jesuit School of Theology.
The reaffiliation of Weston Jesuit School of Theology with Boston College took place in 2008, and the school was moved to the Boston College campus in Brighton, Massachusetts, purchased in 2006.
These buildings formerly housed the chancery of the Archdiocese of Boston and portions of St. John's Seminary.
The Boston College School of Theology and Ministry is a fully accredited member of the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada.
The Theology and Ministry Library is located on the Brighton Campus.
It is open to all Boston College students, faculty and staff, and is a part of the Boston College Library System.
Integrating the former collections of Weston Jesuit School of Theology and St. John's Seminary, it contains more than 2.44 million volumes.
The library also participates in the Boston Theological Institute library program, which allows STM students to borrow materials from any of the other BTI libraries.
The School of Theology and Ministry publishes New Testament Abstracts, a scholarly journal that abstracts at least 2,150 articles selected from over 500 periodicals in different languages, as well as over 850 current books annually.
New Testament Abstracts is published three times per year and is edited by professor Christopher R. Matthews.
The current Dean of the School is the Rev.
Mark S. Massa, S.J.
The previous Dean was the Rev.
Richard J. Clifford, S.J., who oversaw the merger in 2008 and served in that capacity until 2010.
Clifford is currently a professor of Old Testament at the STM.
There are 27 full-time faculty members at the School of Theology and Ministry, in addition to 33 members of the Boston College Department of Theology with which students are able to work and take classes.
The faculty at the STM can be divided according to their research in the following fields: As of 2010, the current number of students at the Boston College School of Theology and Ministry is 402 students during the academic year (and 380 students in the summer institute).
While the majority of students at the STM are Catholic, it is also home to a number of Anglican/Episcopal, Methodist, Lutheran, Evangelical, Orthodox, Presbyterian, Unitarian Universalist, Nondenominational, Buddhist and Hindu students.
The student body includes representatives from 27 nations and 6 continents, and students range in age from 21 to 74 years old.
65% of students at the STM are laypersons, with 35% representing a religious order or diocesan priests.
Lay students in all programs study alongside Jesuit scholastics.
The State Committee for Work with Religious Organizations of Azerbaijan Republic ( ), also known as State Committee for Work with Religious Associations (SCWRA) is a governmental agency within the Cabinet of Azerbaijan in charge of regulation of activities of religious organizations and ensuring freedom of religion in Azerbaijan.
The ministry is headed by Mubariz Qurbanly.
The committee was established on June 21, 2001 in accordance with the Clause 48 of the Constitution of Azerbaijan on religious freedoms by the Presidential Decree No.
512 to supervise the activities of religious organizations in the country as well as protect, create conditions for and guarantee religious freedoms to citizens and residents of Azerbaijan.
Since the inception of the committee, 425 religious communities have been registered to act in Azerbaijan, with 408 being Islamic, 17 - non Islamic (9 Christian, 6 Jewish, 1 Krishna, 1-Bahá'í).
The committee is headed by its Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Head of Administration.
Main functions of the committee are creating conditions for practising of religion in Azerbaijan; supervision of accordance of religious practice with the legislature on religious freedoms; registration of religious organizations, supervising changes to be made to charters of these organizations; assistance to religious organizations with various issues; creating interfaith dialogue between these religious organizations; creation an information database and analysis based on data and statistics from religious organizations; participation in international conferences on religious movements, forums; analysis of education programs prepared by religious schools; creating conditions for religious pilgrimages to other countries for citizens of Azerbaijan and receiving approvals from states where the sacred religious places are located.
All religious organizations have to register with the State Committee for Work with Religious Organizations before any sort of religious practice is introduced by those organizations.
Freedom of religion in Singapore is guaranteed under the Constitution.
However, the Government of Singapore restricts this right in some circumstances.
The Government has restricted the Jehovah's Witnesses and banned the Unification Church.
The Government does not tolerate speech or actions that it deems could adversely affect racial or religious harmony.
Singapore has an area of and a total population of 5.31 million (as of June 2013), of whom 3.6 million are citizens or permanent residents.
According to a 2000 government survey, 85 percent of citizens and permanent residents profess some religious faith.
Of this group, 51 percent practice Buddhism, Taoism, ancestor worship, or other religious practice traditionally associated with the ethnic Chinese population.
Approximately 15 percent of the population is Muslim, 15 percent Christian, and 4 percent Hindu.
The remainder is composed of atheists, agnostics, and adherents of other religions including small Sikh, Jewish, Zoroastrian, and Jain communities.
Among Christians, the majority of whom are ethnic Chinese, Protestants outnumber Roman Catholics by slightly more than two to one.
Approximately 77.8% of the resident population is ethnic Chinese, 14% ethnic Malay, and 7% ethnic Indian.
Nearly all ethnic Malays are Muslim and most ethnic Indians are Hindu.
The ethnic Chinese population is divided between Buddhism, Taoism, and Christianity, or is nonreligious.
Foreign missionaries are active in the country.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion; however, the Government restricts this right in some circumstances.
The Constitution provides that every citizen or person in the country has a constitutional right to profess, practice, or propagate his or her religious belief so long as such activities do not breach any other laws relating to public order, public health, or morality.
There is no state religion.
All religious groups are subject to government scrutiny and must be registered legally under the Societies Act.
The Government deregistered the country's congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses in 1972 and the Unification Church in 1982, making them unlawful societies.
Such a designation makes it impossible to maintain a legal identity as a religious group, with consequences relating to owning property, conducting financial transactions, or holding public meetings.
The Government plays an active but limited role in religious affairs.
For example, the Government seeks to ensure that citizens, most of whom live in government-built housing, have ready access to religious organizations traditionally associated with their ethnic groups by helping such institutions find space in these housing complexes.
The Government maintains a semiofficial relationship with the Muslim community through the Islamic Religious Council of Singapore (MUIS).
The MUIS advises the Government on concerns of the Muslim community, drafts the approved weekly sermon, regulates some Muslim religious matters, and oversees a mosque-building fund financed by voluntary payroll deductions.
The Constitution acknowledges Malay/Muslims to be "the indigenous people of Singapore" and charges the Government specifically to promote their political, educational, religious, economic, social, cultural, and language interests.
The 1961 Women's Charter gives women, among other rights, the right to own property, conduct trade, and receive divorce settlements.
Muslim women enjoy most of the rights and protections of the Women's Charter; however, for the most part, Muslim marriage law falls under the administration of the Muslim Law Act, which empowers the Shari'a court to oversee such matters.
The act also allows Muslim men to practice polygamy.
Requests to take additional wives may be refused by the Registry of Muslim Marriages, which solicits the views of existing wives and reviews the financial capability of the husband.
As of 2007, there were 44 applications for polygamous marriage and 13 applications were approved.
The Presidential Council for Minority Rights examines all pending bills to ensure that they do not disadvantage a particular group.
It also reports to the Government on matters affecting any racial or religious community and investigates complaints.
There were no complaints or reports to the Presidential Council on Minority Rights from the fiscal year 2005/2006.
The Government does not permit religious instruction in public schools.
There are official holy days for each major religion in the country: Hari Raya Haji and Hari Raya Puasa for Muslims, Christmas and Good Friday for Christians, Deepavali for Hindus, and Vesak Day for Buddhists.
The Government promotes interfaith understanding indirectly by sponsoring activities to promote interethnic harmony.
Because the primary ethnic minorities are predominantly of one faith each, government programs to promote ethnic harmony have implications for interfaith relations.
In February 2006, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong unveiled the Community Engagement Programme (CEP).
The goal of the CEP is to promote multiracial and interreligious harmony, in part so that a strong foundation would be in place should an incident that could provoke ethnic/religious discord, such as a religiously related terrorist attack, occur in the country.
The CEP has held numerous community-based seminars, worked with trade unions to form cluster working groups on religious and community harmony, and launched a new website as a platform for communication and dialogue.
The Government restricts certain religious groups by application of the Societies Act.
In 1982 the Minister for Home Affairs dissolved the Holy Spirit Association for the Unification of World Christianity, also known as the Unification Church.
In 1972 the Government deregistered the Singapore Congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses on the grounds that its existence was prejudicial to public welfare and order because its members refuse to perform military service (obligatory for all male citizens), salute the flag, or swear oaths of allegiance to the state.
At the time, there were approximately 200 Jehovah's Witnesses in the country; as of 2007 there were approximately two thousand.
Although the Court of Appeals in 1996 upheld the rights of members of Jehovah's Witnesses to profess, practice, and propagate their religious belief, and the Government does not arrest members for being believers, the result of deregistration has been to make public meetings of Jehovah's Witnesses illegal.
Nevertheless, since the 1996 ruling, no charges have been brought against persons attending or holding Jehovah's Witness meetings in private homes.
The Government can also influence religious practice through the Maintenance of Religious Harmony Act.
The act was passed in 1990 and revised in 2001 in response to actions that the Government viewed as threats to religious harmony.
This includes aggressive and "insensitive" proselytizing and "the mixing of religion and politics."
The act established the Presidential Council on Religious Harmony, which reports to the Minister for Home Affairs and is empowered to issue restraining orders against leaders and members of religious groups to prevent them from carrying out political activities, "exciting disaffection against" the Government, creating "ill will" between religious groups, or carrying out subversive activities.
These orders place individuals on notice that they should not repeat such acts; contravening a restraining order can result in fines of up to $6,622 (SGD 10,000) and up to two years' imprisonment for a first offense.
The act also prohibits judicial review of its enforcement or of any possible denial of rights arising from it.
Missionaries, with the exception of members of Jehovah's Witnesses and representatives of the Unification Church, are permitted to work and to publish and distribute religious texts.
However, while the Government does not prohibit evangelical activities, in practice it discourages activities that might upset the balance of intercommunal relations.
As of 2007, authorities did not detain any Jehovah's Witnesses for proselytizing.
The Government has banned all written materials published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society and other corporations of Jehovah's Witnesses.
In practice this has led to confiscation of Bibles published by the groups, although the Bible itself has not been outlawed.
A person in possession of banned literature can be fined up to SGD 2,000 (USD 1,324) and jailed up to 12 months for a first conviction.
There were no government seizures of Jehovah's Witnesses literature already in the country during the previous 12-month period.
In August 2006 one individual was detained briefly for attempting to bring Jehovah's Witnesses publications into the country from Malaysia.
In this instance, the literature was confiscated and he was convicted of smuggling prohibited media.
Authorities fined the individual SGD 6,000 (USD 3,846).
There were reports of Jehovah's Witnesses students being suspended from school for refusing to sing the national anthem or participate in the flag ceremony.
There were 23 members of Jehovah's Witnesses incarcerated in the armed forces detention barracks because they refused to carry out the legal obligation for all male citizens to serve in the armed forces.
The initial sentence for failure to comply with the military service requirement is 15 months' imprisonment, to which 24 months are added upon a second refusal.
Failure to perform annual military reserve duty, which is required of all those who have completed their initial two-year obligation, results in 40-day sentences; a 12-month sentence is usual after four such refusals.
All of the Jehovah's Witnesses in detention were incarcerated for failing to perform their initial military obligations and expect to serve a total of 39 months.
The Compulsory Education Act of 2000 mandates attendance at public schools for all children, with few exceptions.
In response to concern from the Malay/Muslim community regarding the fate of madrassahs, the Government temporarily exempted madrassah students from compulsory school attendance, allowing attendance at a madrassah in lieu of a public school.
However, according to local press reports, if a madrassah does not meet minimum academic standards by 2008, its students would have to transfer either to a madrassah that does meet such standards or to a public school.
There were no religious prisoners or detainees in the country.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief, which are illegal in Singapore.
Ethnic Malays constituted the great majority of the country's Muslim community.
Attitudes held by the Malay and non-Malay communities regarding one another are based on both ethnicity and religion, which in effect are impossible to separate.
The Government enforced ethnic ratios for publicly subsidized housing, where the majority of citizens live and own their own units.
The policy was designed to prevent ethnic/racial ghettos.
When a housing development is at or near the limit for a particular ethnic group, the policy sometimes compels owners to sell their apartments to persons of underrepresented groups.
Freedom of religion in Canada is a constitutionally protected right, allowing believers the freedom to assemble and worship without limitation or interference.
The "Fundamental Freedoms" section of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms states: Canadians are therefore free to have their own beliefs and opinions, are free to practise religion or refrain, and are free to establish media organizations with or without religious content.
Canadian religious institutions generally benefit from charitable organization status, which allows supporters to benefit from tax credits or deductions for their financial contributions.
According to the Charter's preamble, Canada is founded upon principles that recognize the supremacy of God.Quoted from the Preamble to the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms</ref> This portion of the preamble has not been accorded legal effect in Charter jurisprudence.
The constitutional recognition of God has been criticized as conflicting in principle with the fundamental freedom of conscience and religion guaranteed in section 2, as it would disadvantage those who hold nontheistic or polytheistic beliefs, including atheism and Buddhism.
While religious freedoms are protected from state interference by the Charter, the actions of private individuals are largely governed by the provincial human rights codes.
These codes prohibit discrimination in the marketplace, accommodation, and employment on the grounds of a variety of personal characteristics, including religion.
In 1955, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled in Chaput v. Romain, regarding Jehovah's Witnesses, that all religions have equal rights, based upon tradition and the rule of law.
At the time, no statutes formed the basis for this argument.
In the Guibord case in 1874, the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, at that time the court of last resort for Canada within the British Empire, ruled that the civil courts of Canada have the jurisdiction to resolve disputes between members of a church and the church organization.
The basis for the ruling was that churches are required to comply with their own internal rules and laws, and members of the church have the right to be treated in accordance with those internal rules and laws.
In the specific point in issue in the Guibord case, the Judicial Committee ruled that the Roman Catholic church in Montreal could not refuse the burial of a deceased member of the church because of his political views.
In Syndicat Northcrest v. Amselem, the Supreme Court of Canada provided a two-pronged test to introduce a freedom of religion claim: first, a demonstration of practice or a belief having a nexus with religion.
Second, the person has to be sincere in his/her belief.
The court also stated that the practice in question does not have to be mandatory to the religion, or observed by all who practice the religion.
What is important is that the practice has a nexus with religion (see para 44 of the judgment).
In Mouvement laïque québécois v Saguenay (City), the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that municipal councils cannot open their meetings with a prayer, since it infringed on freedom of conscience and religion.
The ruling ended a legal case that started with a complaint filed by atheist Alain Simoneau and the Mouvement laïque québécois against Saguenay, QC Mayor Jean Tremblay.
Equality of all individuals is guaranteed by Section Fifteen of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
This section promotes the pursuance of equality and the refusal of discrimination under enumerated or analogous grounds.
However, the Charter only protects individuals from actions, policies and norms of public entities, not from private persons and organizations.
To enlarge the scope of protection, the Canadian Human Rights Act (CHRA) in section 3(1) forbids discrimination on prohibited grounds by actors that fall under federal jurisdiction, such as television, and federally regulated industries.
Canadian provinces have their own human rights legislations that can be explicit as to the notion of reasonable accommodation.
In Manitoba, section 9(1)(d) of the Human Rights Code defines discrimination as a “failure to make reasonable accommodation for the special needs of any individual or group if those special needs are based upon” prohibited grounds.
These provincial legislations oblige actors under their jurisdiction (employers, service providers and landlords) to respect the duty to accommodate, to preserve a multicultural society.
The particularity of the duty to accommodate on religious grounds is that cases fall both under the jurisdiction of the Charter and other federal and provincial human rights acts and that they challenge the notions of social values, secularism and gender equality.
The notion of reasonable accommodation is a judicial creation.
It implies that “federal/provincial/territorial anti-discrimination measures place a positive duty on employers, service providers and landlords [...] to accommodate people’s needs for reasons associated with recognized discriminatory grounds.” According to Sandra Fredman, the duty of reasonable accommodation “represents and advance towards substantive equality” for three reasons.
Firstly, “equality is explicitly asymmetric, aiming to redress disadvantage even if this entails different or more favourable treatment.” Secondly, it is focused “on modifying the environment to facilitate the participation of those affected.” Finally, ““[it] goes beyond other conceptions of equality in that it expressly imposes a positive duty to make changes.” The notion of reasonable accommodation is directly related to the freedom of religion.
Indeed, in 2006, “the Multani decision [...] moved reasonable accommodation from the realm of employment law into a broader legal discourse on religious freedom more generally.” In claims concerning discrimination on religious grounds, the burden of proof shifts to the employer, landlord or service provider who has to prove the two elements: (1) that the rule is necessary and (2) he accommodates the individual to the point of undue hardship.
The duty of reasonable accommodation on religious grounds experiences some limits, because all rights are not absolutes.
Indeed, reasonable accommodation requires a balance between the rights of the claimant and the holder of the duty to accommodate.
The main limit to the duty to accommodate that is included in the CHRA is the notion of undue hardship.
It signifies that the discriminatory practice can be justified if the duty holder demonstrates that the required accommodation weights too much on him.
The undue hardship includes “health, safety and cost.” Professor Christian Brunelle divides the evaluation criteria in three categories: the limits of financial and material resources of the company/institution, the breach of the victim’s rights, and the proper functioning of the company/institution.
The judge also takes into account the reasonable feature of the controversial policy, rule or norm, the effort of accommodation by the duty holder, and the excessive feature of the constraint.
Courts generally agree that the complainant has to take steps towards accommodation or “must either sacrifice his religious principles or his employment”.
In Alberta v. Hutterian Brethren of Wilson Colony, the Supreme Court of Canada addressed whether the obligation to have a photograph on the driver’s license violated the Hutterites’ right to freedom of religion.
The Court found that there was a prima facie discrimination but considered that the necessity to protect the integrity of the licensing system and to fight against identity fraud was a justified limitation on the community’s religious freedom.
This decision illustrates another limit to reasonable accommodation: public interest.
The Court explains that “[g]iving effect to each of their religious claims could seriously undermine the universality of many regulatory programs [...] to the overall detriment of the community.” The duty of reasonable accommodation has a major impact on the promotion of multiculturalism protected under Section Twenty-seven of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
Professor Errol P. Mendes suggests that reasonable accommodation is part of the “Canadian paradigm”, in contradistinction with the French “laïcité.” Besides the cases brought to courts, there are many examples of reasonable accommodation negotiated in a non judiciary context.
One example is the decision of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) to allow Sikh adherents to wear religious signs when serving the RCMP (e.g.
the turban, the beard and the dagger.)
The federal court decided that this decision did not infringe the Charter.
It is the case of some municipalities that decided that the public swimming pool should be separated between men and women 3 hours a week (1h30 each) to accommodate observant Muslims.
It was also brought up with the decision of the Quebec Soccer Federation to lift the prohibition on Sikh head coverings.
The duty of reasonable accommodation presents particular issues in the province of Quebec.
Some describe it as a “subject of high controversy” and as threatening “the collective values chosen by Quebecers to govern their collective existence”.
Surveys showed that 71.7% of Quebecers whose mother tongue is French found today’s society “overly tolerant of accommodation”, whereas only 35.2% of Quebecers having another mother tongue shared this opinion.
In a 1985 Supreme Court case involving the Lord's Day Act, R. v. Big M Drug Mart Ltd., Chief Justice Brian Dickson said that religious freedom in Canada includes freedom of religious speech, including "the right to entertain such religious beliefs as a person chooses, the right to declare religious beliefs openly and without fear of hindrance or reprisal, and the right to manifest religious belief by worship and practice or by teaching and dissemination."
Canada has laws prohibiting the promotion of hatred against sections of the public distinguished by colour, race, religion, ethnic origin, or sexual orientation.
However, there are exemptions in the Bill which permit the expression of opinions on religious subjects and opinions based on religious texts which would otherwise be prohibited.
In 1996, the Supreme Court of Canada held that the anti-Semitic publications of a New Brunswick schoolteacher, challenged under provincial Human Rights Act, were protected by his right to freedom of religion, but that professional sanctions were a reasonable limit on that right, to maintain "a school system that is free from bias, prejudice and intolerance."
In 1997, Hugh Owens, a Saskatchewan prison guard, published an advertisement in the Star-Phoenix that referenced Bible verses related to homosexuality (without quoting them) and drew a line through an image representing a gay couple.
A complaint was lodged with the Saskatchewan Human Rights Board of Inquiry.
The Board ruled against Owens and that decision was also upheld by a lower court.
On April 13, 2006 the Saskatchewan Court of Appeal overturned the previous decisions, ruling that while Owens's advertisement was "offensive and jarring to many", it was not illegal.
The court also ruled that statements which are designed to provoke "extreme emotions and strong feelings of detestation, calumny and vilification" may be deemed as hate speech.
In 2000, Rev.
Ken Campbell successfully defended against an Ontario Human Rights Commission complaint filed after he placed an advertisement in the Globe and Mail newspaper where he protested a Supreme Court of Canada ruling calling for Alberta to amend the Human Rights Code regarding LGBT issues.
The ad began with "Supreme Court has no business imposing 'bathhouse morality' on the churches and in the living rooms of the nation."
Two years later he successfully defended against a complaint filed at the BC Human Rights Tribunal for the same advertisement, with the decision stating "The essence of Mr. Campbell's defence is that the publication... is an expression of his Charter-protected rights to express his religious beliefs; that is, a finding of discrimination would impair both his freedom of expression and his freedom of religion."
Another high-profile case involves Chris Kempling, a school teacher, who was suspended without pay in 2002 for writing letters to a local newspaper objecting to the introduction of LGBT-related material into the public school system, arguing against same-sex marriage, and advocating conversion therapy for gay and lesbian persons.
Kempling appealed the suspension to the courts.
The British Columbia Court of Appeal found that his right to freedom of expression had been breached, but that the disciplinary action was a reasonable limit on his rights, as it was done with the objective of maintaining a tolerant and non-discriminatory school system.
In R. v. Big M Drug Mart, the Supreme Court of Canada held that the stated purpose of the federal Lord's Day Act, compelling observance of the Christian Sabbath, was incompatible with the protections of freedom of religion in the Charter.
In 1986, in R. v. Edwards Books and Art, the Supreme Court found that legislation prohibiting Sunday shopping with the secular purpose of creating a day of rest was also a violation of freedom of religion because of the unequal effect of the law on retailers who observed a different sabbath.
However, this violation was upheld as a justifiable limit on freedom of religion.
The Supreme Court of Canada has ruled that there is a duty to accommodate religious observance under human rights legislation.
The 1990 case Central Alberta Dairy Pool v. Alberta concerned an employee who was required by his religion to take Easter Monday as a holy day.
As this is not a statutory holiday, his employer required that he work that day or lose his job.
The Supreme Court of Canada found that the employer should have accommodated the employee's religious practices.
In a 1985 court case involving an employee of the Canadian National Railway, K.S.
Bhinder, a Sikh whose religion required that he wear a turban, lost his challenge of the CNR policy that required him to wear a hard hat.
In the 1990 case of Central Alberta Dairy Pool, the Supreme Court of Canada overturned the 1985 Bhinder decision, saying: "An employer that has not adopted a policy with respect to accommodation and cannot otherwise satisfy the trier of fact that individual accommodation would result in undue hardship will be required to justify his conduct with respect to the individual complainant.
Even then the employer can invoke the BFOQ (bona fide occupational qualification) defence."
In the 1991 case of Peel Board of Education v. Ontario Human Rights Commission, an Ontario school board's "zero tolerance" for weapons in its schools had an adverse impact on Khalsa Sikh men who are required by their religion to carry a kirpan, a ceremonial dagger.
A Khalsa Sikh teacher brought a complaint under the Ontario Human Rights Code and was successful.
The school board challenged this to the Ontario Divisional Court on the basis that there was a threat to public safety.
The Divisional Court ruled that the threat to public safety from Sikhs was minimal and the discriminatory impact of the ruling on this religious group was significant.
In 2006, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled in Multani v. Commission scolaire Marguerite‑Bourgeoys that Sikh children can wear a kirpan to school based on freedom of religion.
In 1995, the Federal Court of Appeal upheld the exemption for Sikhs from wearing the "Mountie hat" as part of the RCMP dress requirements.
Prior to 1798, only ministers of the Church of England had the authority to solemnize legal marriages in Upper Canada.
This power was extended by degrees to religious officials of various other Christian denominations over the first half of the 19th century, until an 1857 act granted the power to solemnize marriages to the ministers of every religious denominiation.
A similar process occurred in Lower Canada, with the main difference being that it was the Roman Catholic Church which initially held the sole authority.
Polygamous marriages, promoted by some religious minority groups, are illegal in Canada.
Authorities often do not strictly enforce the applicable laws, as has been the case in Bountiful, British Columbia.
On January 12, 2006, the Department of Justice (Canada) released a study, authored by three law professors at Queen's University, recommending that Canada repeal the laws that make polygamy a criminal offence.
See related article, Polygamy and religion.
In the 2003 case Halpern et al.
v. Attorney General of Canada et al., the Ontario Court of Appeal rejected the argument that a failure of the law to recognize same-sex marriages violated the religious rights of the church that performed the ceremonies, though the court found the definition of marriage to be unconstitutional on other grounds.
In 2000, a Board of Inquiry appointed under the Ontario Human Rights Code found that Scott Brockie, a Toronto printer, had discriminated on the basis of sexual orientation by refusing to print letterhead, envelopes, and business cards for the Canadian Lesbian and Gay Archives.
The Board of Inquiry ordered Brockie to pay damages of $5,000 to the two complainants who had brought the complaint.
Brockie unsuccessfully appealed to Ontario Superior Court (Divisional Court) to overturn the decision.
The divisional court ruled that the order requiring Brockie to print the materials was a justifiable violation of Brockie's religious rights.
However, the court limited the scope of the Board of Inquiry's ruling to only ordinary material such as letterhead and envelopes.
The court said the Board of Inquiry's order "ought not to require Mr. Brockie to print material of a nature that could reasonably be considered to be in direct conflict with the core elements of his religious beliefs."
In 2002, the Rainbow Harmony Project, a choir that supports LGBT persons, filed a complaint against Camp Arnes of Manitoba, after the camp denied them access.
The complaint was settled, with both parties issuing a joint statement that the conflict had resulted from uncertainty regarding that nature of the camp's rental operations, and the acknowledgement that they were "part of its broader religious mission and outreach and not primarily a commercial activity."
Court rulings in Saskatchewan have held that religious-based objections of provincial marriage commissioners to same-sex marriage do not need to be accommodated, because refusal by a government-appointed marriage commissioner to perform same-sex marriages would constitute a violation of the Charter equality rights of gay and lesbian individuals.
In 2008, the Saskatchewan Human Rights Tribunal held that marriage commissioner Orville Nichols had discriminated against a same-sex couple by refusing to perform their marriage ceremony.
The Tribunal ordered him to pay $2,500 in compensation to the couple.
In 2009, the Saskatchewan Court of Queen's Bench upheld the Tribunal's decision.
In response to a reference question from the Government of Saskatchewan, the Saskatchewan Court of Appeal ruled in 2011 that two proposed bills which would have permitted marriage commissioners to refuse to perform same-sex marriages because of religious objections would be unconstitutional.
Ordained religious ministers in Canada are not required to marry same-sex couples.
A poll conducted in October 2006 found that 57% of Canadians believe that a marriage commissioner should be able to refuse to officiate at a gay wedding so long as there are enough marriage commissioners available, and 72% felt that clergy should have the right to refuse to officiate if doing so would violate his or her religious beliefs.
A set of Jehovah's Witness parents refused blood transfusions for their one-year-old daughter after doctors decided the baby urgently needed them.
The baby was made a ward of the state to administer blood transfusions.
The Supreme Court of Canada ruled that this was a legitimate limitation on religious freedom.
In 2004, Robert Allen lost a case he brought against the Council for the Corporation of the County of Renfrew, where Allen attempted to prevent the council from opening each meeting with a prayer.
The court found in favour of the council.
In the 2004 case Syndicat Northcrest v. Amselem, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled in favour of Jews seeking to build a sukkah despite a condominium agreement that prohibited the action.
Canada's approach to religious education often faces concerns addressing to how to best balance competing concerns, e.g., anti-discrimination laws and religious freedoms, and respect rights to religious education outlined in important Canadian legal documents.
In some provinces and territories, public funding for religious-based separate schools, either Roman Catholic or Protestant, is mandated by section 93 of the Canadian Constitution and reaffirmed by Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
The United Nations declared in 1999 that Ontario was in violation of the international covenant on civil and political rights by exclusively funding Catholic schools over other faith-based schools.
In 2007, an Ontario poll conducted by the Strategic Council showed that 71% of people were opposed to expanding faith based funding to non-Catholic religions.
Quebec was originally required by the Constitution to provide public funding for confessional schools, but in 1997 a constitutional amendment was passed withdrawing the confessional nature of public schools.
The Quebec Education Act was then amended to reflect the constitutional changes and on July 1, 1998, the changes took effect.
In 1998 Newfoundland similarly abolished the constitutional requirement for confessional based funding.
In 2001, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled in Trinity Western University v. British Columbia College of Teachers that the British Columbia College of Teachers was wrong to withhold accreditation of Trinity Western University's teacher education program on the basis that the school's policy prohibited "homosexual behaviour"."
"Canada's Supreme Court upheld freedom of religion", The Cambridge Reporter, July 6, 2001</ref> In a highly publicized 2002 case, Justice Robert McKinnon granted an interlocutory injunction ordering that Marc Hall be allowed to bring a same-sex date to prom at his Oshawa, Ontario Catholic high school.
The matter did not, however, proceed to trial, meaning no binding judgment on the merits of the case was issued.
In 2006, the Province of British Columbia moved to make changes that would require religious schools to teach LGBT-friendly educational material; however, the British Columbia government indicated that changes to the public education system were not intended to prevent religious schools from teaching their ethical codes of behaviour.
In 2006, an independent Christian Evangelical school in Quebec was ordered by its school board to teach Darwin's theory of evolution and a compressive sex education program, a requirement that does not exist in some other provinces.
In response, the Quebec Ministry of Education negotiated with an unspecified number of Evangelical schools on a working curriculum that would not violate the basic legal educational requirements.
In 2008 Paul Donovan, the principal of a Jesuit catholic high school in Quebec, objected to a government mandated course on religion and ethics.
The ethics and religious culture course, ERC as it is called, is a provincially mandated course that requires schools to teach the basic traditions and symbolisms of a variety of religions.
Donovan argued on behalf of Loyola High School that the ERC forbids teachers from teaching, in detail, the reasons why a given religious faith believes what it does believe; any form of instruction that could be perceived as an endorsement of a particular religion or proclaiming it as truth is prohibited and therefore seen by Donovan as a violation of religious freedom, as outlined in the Quebec Charter of Values.
An additional concern is that government imposed religious and ethical curricula on institutions like Loyola, could be precedence setting for government control on other faith based institutions such as churches and associated religious organizations.
All schools in Quebec, including religious, private schools, and home schools are obliged by the law to offer the ERC.
If faith based schools want to continue their traditional faith education, they are permitted to do so, however it must be in addition to but separate from the ERC.
This is viewed by the law's opponents as closed secularism, as opposed to open secularism, and a perversion of the proper understanding of pluralism and, of most concern, a breach of their right to teach the faith.
A Quebec Superior Court agreed with the school's position in 2010, but in 2012 an appellate court sided with the government.
On June 13, 2013, the case was brought before the Supreme Court of Canada and is awaiting ruling.
For the Methodist theology school affiliated with the University of Toronto, go to Emmanuel College, Toronto.
Emmanuel Bible College is a small Bible college located in Kitchener, Ontario, Canada.
It is attended by more than 200 students from September to April, with a break in December.
In response to a need for trained Christian leaders, the college was established in 1940 as a Bible school in Stouffville, Ontario by Ward M Shantz.
It then shortly relocated to Gormley, Ontario.
In 1943 the school was moved to downtown Kitchener, Ontario (now site of Centre In The Square on Ahrens near Queen Street) and then, in 1964, to the current location at 100 Fergus Avenue in Kitchener.
In 1982 the college received its accreditation by the (now) Association for Biblical Higher Education, following the passing of a provincial Act giving it the right to grant degrees.
Emmanuel exists to provide training in Christian discipleship and ministry to persons of all ages through both degree programs and nonformal training that includes online courses and certificates and regularly offered workshops under the name "Refresh".
The college's mission statement is: "Through academic training and hands on ministry and service, Emmanuel prepares Christ followers who are committed to making a difference in their world."
The campus is composed of a number of buildings: Ward M. Shantz Chapel is where chapel services are held on Tuesday and Thursday mornings from 11:30am–12:15pm.
The main administration building was constructed when the college moved from its location on Ahrens Street in Kitchener to where it is now located.
The library was built in the 1980s in memory of Edna Pridham, who died while she was serving in Nigeria.
The college has three residence buildings.
First Year Emmanuel Student (includes Room, 14 meals per week, Residence Association Fee) Single Occupancy: $3129.00 Double Occupancy: $2879.00 First Year Non-Emmanuel Student (includes Room, 5 meals per week, Residence Association Fee) Single Occupancy: $2345.00 Double Occupancy: $2095.00 Emmanuel is a Bible College with the distinction of offering both Degree and Diploma programs focusing on a variety of faith and ministry disciplines.
These programs include a four year Bachelor of Theology program (BTh) as well as a three-year Bachelor of Religious Education (BRE).
These programs offer a variety of major choices, as well as double-major options.
As well, the school offers a variety of short-term diploma and certificates, such as the one year MountainTop program and the adventure-discipleship program, Expedition.
The ministry training programs are a blend of: Bible and Theology courses (a major); General Studies; Professional courses; Field Education, Internships, and Co-ops.
Distance education Distance Education courses are available to anyone interested in pursuing educational opportunities at Emmanuel.
For some students, DE provides a chance to begin a Bible college education either as an occasional student or to enter a program.
For others, DE courses supplement the in-class offerings, providing flexibility in scheduling.
Students in any certificate, diploma or degree program at Emmanuel may take up to half of their courses by DE.
EBC is affiliated with the Evangelical Missionary Church of Canada, Congregational Christian Churches in Canada; & United Brethren Churches in Canada The College is an accredited member with the Commission on Accreditation of the ABHE.
ABHE is recognized by the (American) Council for Higher Education Accreditation.
As well, the College is chartered by the Province of Ontario in the 1981 Emmanuel Bible College Act, which entitles EBC to confer the degrees of Bachelor of Theology (B.Th.
), , and Bachelor of Religious Education (B.R.E.)
More than 3000 empirical studies have examined relationships between religion and health, including more than 1200 in the 20th century, and more than 2000 additional studies between 2000 and 2009.
Various other reviews of the religion/spirituality and health literature have been published.
These include two reviews from an NIH-organized expert panel that appeared in a 4-article special section of American Psychologist.
Several chapters in edited academic books have also reviewed the empirical literature.
Having a religious belief may have both positive and negatives impacts on health and morbidity.
A study in the 1996 (Kark et al.)
has found that death rates for 3900 Israelis in religious and non-religious settlements over a period of 16 years were lower in religious communities.
The authors cite a number of possible reasons mostly associated with lower stress levels in a religious community.
Church attendance has been found to increase life expectancy (Hummer et al.
1999) with a life expectancy at age 20 of 83 years for frequent attendees and 75 years for non-attendees.
The finding, however, does not prove that religion in itself increases life expectancy.
In a study of patients hospitalized for depression, people of faith were found to have less suicidal behavior and beliefs than atheists.
A number of religious practices have been reported to cause infections.
These happened during an ultra-orthodox Jewish circumcisions practice known as metzitzah b'peh, the ritual 'side roll' in Hinduism, the Christian communion chalice, during the Islamic Hajj and after the Muslim ritual ablution.
The existence of ‘religious struggle’ in elderly patients was predictive of greater risk of mortality in a study by Pargament et al.
2001 .
Results indicate that patients, with a previously sound religious life, experienced a 19% to 28% greater mortality due to the belief that God was supposedly punishing them or abandoning them.
Exline et al.
1999 showed that the difficulty in forgiving God and alienation from God were associated with higher levels of depression and anxiety.
Among those who currently believed in God, forgiving God for a specific, unfortunate incident predicted lower levels of anxious and depressed mood.
William Brede Kristensen (21 June 1867 in Kristiansand – 25 September 1953 in Leiden) was a Norwegian historian of religion.
Kristensen completed secondary school in 1884.
For a short while he studied theology, but from the fall of 1887 he concentrated on history of religion, first in Kristiania, later (1890–92) at Leiden University under Professor Cornelis Petrus Tiele and 1892–93 in Paris under Gaston Maspero.
In 1896 he received his Doctor Philosophiae from the University of Kristiania on a thesis titled The Egyptians' Conceptions of Life after Death in Relation to the Gods Ra and Osiris (Ægypternes Forestillinger om Liv efter Døden i Forbindelse med Guderne Ra og Osiris).
Kristensen was granted a scholarship, combined with the duty of giving lectures at University of Kristiania in 1898.
In 1901 he became the successor of Professor Tiele in history of religion and Phenomenology of religion at Leiden University, a professorship he held until his retirement in 1937.
<br/>Kristensen can be seen as the anchorman of Dutch Phenomenology of religion.
Kristensen argues that phenomenology seeks the “meaning” of religious phenomena.
Kristensen clarifies this supposition by defining the meaning that his phenomenology is seeking as “the meaning that the religious phenomena have for the believers themselves”.
The status of creation and evolution in public education has been the subject of substantial debate and conflict in legal, political, and religious circles.
Globally, there is a wide variety of views on the topic; in some countries legislation forbids teachers to discuss either the evidence for evolution or the modern evolutionary synthesis, the explanatory scientific theory of evolution.
In other countries legislation mandates that only evolutionary biology is to be taught in the appropriate scientific syllabuses.
While many doctrines do not raise theological objections to the modern evolutionary synthesis as an explanation for the present form of life on Earth, various fundamentalist sects, including many churches within Christianity, have objected vehemently.
Some adherents are passionately opposed to the consensus view of the scientific community.
Rigidly arbitrary interpretations, represented as being the literal meaning of religious texts, is the greatest cause of conflict with evolutionary and cosmological investigations and conclusions.
Globally, evolution is taught in science courses with limited controversy, with the exception of a few areas of the United States and several Islamic fundamentalist countries.
In the United States, the Supreme Court has ruled the teaching of creationism as science in public schools to be unconstitutional, irrespective of how it may be purveyed in theological or religious instruction.
In the United States, intelligent design (ID) has been represented as an alternative explanation to evolution in recent decades, but its "demonstrably religious, cultural, and legal missions" have been ruled unconstitutional by a lower court.
Although creationist views are popular among religious education teachers and creationist teaching materials have been distributed by volunteers in some schools, many Australian scientists take an aggressive stance supporting the right of teachers to teach the theory of evolution, unhindered by religious restrictions.
In Brazil, teaching of creationism in scientific education classes is forbidden by the Ministry of Education (MEC).
Religious education is not forbidden as such, but the federal constitution states that the union can neither impose, nor promote, nor finance any religion, because by law Brazil is a secular state.
In 2004 however, teachers of religious education classes in schools of the education department of Rio de Janeiro began to present creationism in their classes as scientific fact.
The practice was directly initiated by politicians in power who were promoting their personal religious views, and their action moved Brazilian scientists to protest the abuse.
Subsequently in congress a "religious bench," or faction, has become increasingly influential.
For example, a Brazilian senator, Marcelo Crivella, the former Minister of Fishing and Aquiculture, publicly declared his religiously founded antagonism to evolution.< On October 4, 2007, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) adopted its Resolution 1580 titled The dangers of creationism in education.
The resolution observed that "The war on the theory of evolution and on its proponents most often originates in forms of religious extremism closely linked to extreme right-wing political movements," and urged member states "firmly oppose the teaching of creationism as a scientific discipline on an equal footing with the theory of evolution and in general the presentation of creationist ideas in any discipline other than religion."
The Assembly's work leading to adopting the resolution began in 2006, when several delegates of the assembly, led by British Labour Party politician Andrew McIntosh, suggested to adopt a recommendation on this theme.
During drafting, the report and draft resolution were prepared by the delegate from the French Socialist Party, Guy Lengagne.
The report was returned by PACE to its Committee on Culture, Science and Education for revision in June 2007 with 63 votes against 46, at the request by the leader of the Christian Democratic group in the Assembly Luc Van den Brande.
Reuters noted that calling off the debate and vote "also won support from east European deputies, who recalled that Darwinian evolution was a favorite theory of their former communist rulers."
The procedure used for the referral was criticized by the Assembly's Committee on Culture, Science and Education.
After the revision by a new rapporteur, Anne Brasseur, a delegate from Luxembourg representing the Liberal group in the Assembly and several amendments made by the Assembly, the resolution was adopted, by 48 votes against 25.< <ref> Minutes of the PACE sitting on October 4, 2007.
The resolution's aim is "to warn against certain tendencies to pass off a belief as science … the Parliamentary Assembly is worried about the possible ill-effect of the spread of creationist ideas within our education systems and about the consequences for our democracies.
If we are not careful, creationism could become a threat to human rights."
It rejects that creationism in any form, including "intelligent design," can be considered scientific (Para.
4), but considers possible its inclusion in religion and cultural classes (Para.
The resolution concludes that teaching creationism in school as a scientific theory may threaten civil rights (Paras.
The resolution summarizes itself in Para.
The resolution was criticised by deputy head of the Department for External Church Relations of the Russian Orthodox Church, Archpriest Vsevolod Chaplin, stating that "those few fossils presented by the anthropologists as examples of ape-human transitional forms could be explained by random mutations.
We don't claim to found a new species upon finding a fish with two heads."
and by the president of Southern Baptist Theological Seminary Albert Mohler considering that "this can only mean that Europe (at least as represented by the Council of Europe) has forgotten even its Christian memory."
In February 2009, the resolution was a starting point of a conference held in Dortmund, Germany, and led by Dittmar Graf from the Dortmund University of Technology.
The conference, including participation of Anne Brasseur, among others, was held in cooperation with the Max Planck Institute for Molecular Physiology, University of Vienna and Hacettepe University and with support from German Ministry of Education and Research.
Michael Poole, a King's College London Visiting Research Fellow in Science and Religion and a founding member of the International Society for Science and Religion, criticised the resolution for being too restrictive while disapproving of young Earth creationism and the intelligent design movement.
Deutsche Welle, covering the disagreement among members of the Assembly on whether the resolution constituted an attack on religious beliefs, and Die Welt, pointing to journalists-expressed suspicions of wishing to limit freedom of conscience and Brasseur's response that the aim was to draw a line between the spheres of faith and science.
On April 25, 2007, Member of Parliament Martin Henriksen (Danish People's Party) asked Education Minister Bertel Haarder (Liberal Party of Denmark) for information about how many educational institutions had received The Atlas of Creation (2006) by Harun Yahya.< In interview sessions during 2002, less than 10% of the interviewed Danes declared the theory of evolution as being definitely false.
Iranian scientific development, especially the health-related aspects of biology, has been a goal of the Islamic government since the Iranian Revolution of 1979.
Since Iranian traditional practice of Shi'a religion isn't preoccupied with Qur'anic literalism as in case of fundamentalist Wahhabism but ijtihad, many influential Iranian Shi'ite scholars, including several who were closely involved in the Iranian Revolution, are not opposed to evolutionary ideas in general, disagreeing that evolution necessarily conflicts with the Muslim mainstream.
Evolution is incorporated in the science curriculum starting from the 5th grade.
An emphasis is placed on empirical evidence, such as the study of fossils, rather than Islamic scripture, thus portraying geologists and other types of scientists as the authoritative voices of scientific knowledge.
In the Netherlands some factions teach creationism in their own schools.
In May 2005, a discussion on intelligent design erupted when Minister of Education Maria van der Hoeven suggested that debate about intelligent design might encourage discourse between the country's various religious parties.
She sought to "stimulate an academic debate" on the subject.
Following strong objection from the nation's scientists, she dropped plans of holding a conference on the matter.
After the 2007 elections, she was succeeded by Ronald Plasterk, described as a "molecular geneticist, staunch atheist and opponent of intelligent design."
In 1986, Norway's then-Minister of Church and Education Affairs Kjell Magne Bondevik proposed new education plans for the elementary and middle school levels which included skepticism to the theory of evolution and would hold that a final answer to the origin of mankind was unknown.
The proposal was withdrawn after it had generated controversy.
Poland saw a controversy over creationism in 2006 when Deputy Education Minister Mirosław Orzechowski denounced evolution as a lie taught in Polish schools.
His superior, Minister of National Education Roman Giertych, has stated that the theory of evolution would continue to be taught in Polish schools, "as long as most scientists in our country say that it is the right theory."
Giertych's father, Member of the European Parliament Maciej Giertych, has however opposed the teaching of evolution and has claimed that "in every culture there are indications that we remember dinosaurs.
The Scots have Nessie; we Poles have the Wawel dragon."
In Serbia the teaching of evolution was suspended for one week in 2004, under Minister of Education and Sport Ljiljana Čolić, only allowing schools to reintroduce evolution into the curriculum if they also taught creationism.
"After a deluge of protest from scientists, teachers and opposition parties" says the BBC report, Čolić's deputy, Milan Brdar, made the statement, "I have come here to confirm Charles Darwin is still alive" and announced that the decision was reversed.
Čolić resigned after the government said that she had caused "problems that had started to reflect on the work of the entire government."
Although it has been claimed that evolution is not taught in Pakistani universities; the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan, which is the federal body which sets standards of course content, has knowledge and understanding of evolution as being compulsory for several courses such as microbiology, bioinformatics, zoology, botany as well as others.
In 2006, the Pakistan Academy of Sciences became a signatory of the InterAcademy Panel Statement on "The teaching of evolution."
Many of the contemporary titles on the creation-evolution controversy, such as those by biologist Richard Dawkins, are available for general sale.
In 1998, Ioan Moisin, a Christian Democratic senator and a Greek Catholic priest, called upon Romania's Ministry of Education to establish a commission of Catholics who would revise biology textbooks and philosophical textbooks to not contradict Biblical creationism.
Moisin disapproved of students learning from their religious teachers that God created human beings and then learning to the contrary from biology and philosophy teachers that humans descend from apes as a product of evolution by Darwinian natural selection.
Moisin's proposal to establish the commission also sought to form a Council of Public Morality that would feature representatives composed of teachers and clergy, to oversee public education, and to be subordinated only to the direct authority of the President of Romania.
Romania's Parliament and Ministry of Education never seriously considered the proposals.
In December 2006, a schoolgirl in Saint Petersburg, Russia, and her father took the issue of the teaching of evolution in Russian schools to court.
The Russian Ministry of Education supports the theory of evolution.
Representatives of the Russian Orthodox Church backed the suit.
In February 2007, the first instance court, and in July, the second instance court, ruled in favour of the Ministry.
In August 2014 the Mayor of Kazan, Il'sur Metshin, expressed surprise at schools teaching the "theory of Darwin".
He added that he intended to raise the question of the school curriculum at the federal level.
A Saudi 12th-grade textbook mentions evolution by name only where it claims that Charles Darwin has "denied Allah's creation of humanity".
The rest of the textbook focuses on descriptions of the taxonomic ranks: it makes no further mention of evolution, only quoting Qur'an verses as relevant to certain groups of animals.
In Turkey, a mostly Islamic country, evolution is often a controversial subject.
Evolution was added to the school curriculum shortly after the Turkish Revolution of the 1920s and 30s.
There was some resistance to this, such as that of Said Nursî and his followers, but opposition was not particularly powerful.
In fact, some prominent Turkish scholars during the first decades of the new-born Turkish republic, such as Ahmet Hamdi Akseki (d. 1951), who once served as the President of Religious Affairs of Turkey, and İzmirli İsmail Hakkı (d. 1946) thought that the theory of evolution cannot be seen as contrary to Islam because it was already to be found in the classical works of Muslim theology.
In the 1980s, conservatives came into power, and used the ideas of scientific creationists in the US as a method of discrediting evolution (notwithstanding material on the age of the Earth, which Islamic creationism is less specific about).
In general, material that conflicts with religious beliefs is highly controversial in Turkey.
For example, in November 2007 a prosecutor launched a probe into whether Richard Dawkins' book The God Delusion (2006) is "an attack on religious values."
Its publisher could face trial and up to one year in prison if the prosecutor concludes that the book "incites religious hatred" and insults religious values.
In each of the countries of the United Kingdom, there is an agreed syllabus for religious education with the right of parents to withdraw their children from these lessons.
The religious education syllabus does not involve teaching creationism, but rather teaching the central tenets of major world faiths.
At the same time, the teaching of evolution is compulsory in publicly funded schools.
For instance, the National Curriculum for England requires that students at Key Stage 4 (14–16) be taught: Similar requirements exist in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
In 2003, the Emmanuel Schools Foundation (previously the Vardy Foundation after its founder, Sir Peter Vardy) sponsored a number of "faith-based" academies where evolution and creationist ideas would be taught side-by-side in science classes.
This caused a considerable amount of controversy.
The former Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, has expressed his view that creationism should not be taught in schools.
An organisation called Truth in Science has distributed teaching packs of creationist information to schools, and claims that fifty-nine schools are using the packs as "a useful classroom resource."
The government has stated that "Neither intelligent design nor creationism are recognised scientific theories and they are not included in the science curriculum.
The Truth in Science information pack is therefore not an appropriate resource to support the science curriculum."
It is arranging to communicate this message directly to schools.
The teaching of creationism and intelligent design in schools in the UK is being opposed by the British Centre for Science Education (BCSE).
In the United States, creationists and proponents of evolution are engaged in a long-standing battle over the legal status of creation and evolution in the public school science classroom.
The Norwegian School of Theology, formerly the Free Faculty of Theology ( ) is a private, independent, accredited Norwegian specialised university.
The school is located in Majorstuen, Oslo.
The main goal of the institution is to educate and train ministers, pastors, Christian educators (catechists), deacons, teachers and researchers for church, school and society.
The school offers degrees on an undergraduate level, on a postgraduate level and on a postgraduate research (PhD) level.
MF was founded in 1907 by a body of people (Norwegian academics, politicians, clergy and lay people) wanting to build the education and research on the Holy Scriptures and the Lutheran Confessions.
The main reason for the establishing of the School was an appointment to a professoriate at the Faculty of Theology at University of Oslo.
The Chair of Systematic Theology was vacant after the death of Fredrik Petersen in 1903, and in 1906 the liberal theologian Johannes Ording was appointed to the Chair.
Ording was appointed after a lengthy debate which almost led to a crisis in the Government of Norway.
It was not supported by the other leading professors at the faculty, and Sigurd Odland at the Faculty of Theology and the Minister of Church Affairs Christian Knudsen in the Government left their positions following the appointment.
Notable people in the society and the Church gathering around Odland then took steps to found an independent institution training the clergy.
The founding charter was signed October 16, 1907, and the School was opened in the autumn of 1908 with only 8 students (a number that increased to 14 before the end of the first term).
The earliest teachers were Sigurd Odland (New Testament), Edvard Sverdrup (Church history), Peter Hognestad (Old Testament), Ole Hallesby (Systematic theology).
From 1919 the members of academic staff was granted the right to call themselves professors.
The School grew steadily, and in 1913 MF was given the right to offer degrees in Theology, and also in Practical Theology from 1925.
The School expanded in 1967 and an institute of Christian Studies was founded giving a minor, major and a master's degree in Christian Studies.
1977 the school started to train Christian Educators (catechists).
A major step was the right to award the doctoral degree in 1990.
The School was the first private school given the right to do this, and in 2005 the school was accredited as a specialized university institution by the Norwegian authorities.
Beginning in 1907 as a confessional school,today it is an ecumenical inclusive school offering education specific to a number of denominations (Lutheran, Methodist, Catholic, Salvation Army and Pentecostal).
MF is Norway’s largest school of theology, religion and social sciences, and enrolls approximately 1200 students from both Norway and other countries.
MF Norwegian School of Theology awards the following degrees: bachelor, master, candidatus/a theologiae and Ph.D.
It offers the following programmes of study that results in the mentioned degrees: Kjell Magne Bondevik, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, Torild Skogsholm, Helen Bjørnøy.
The Noumenia is the first day of the lunar month and also a religious observance in ancient Athens and much of Greece (cf.
Attic calendar).
The Noumenia was marked when the first sliver of moon was visible and was held in honor of Selene, Apollon Noumenios, Hestia and the other Hellenic household Gods.
The Noumenia was also the second day in a three-day household celebration held each lunar month; Hekate's Deipnon is on the last day before the first slice of visible moon and is the last day in a lunar month, then the Noumenia which marks the first day in a lunar month, followed by the Agathos Daimon (Good Spirits) on the second day of the Lunar month.
The Noumenia was considered, in the words of Plutarch, "the holiest of days" and no other religious festivals were allowed on this day, nor were any governmental meetings scheduled to take place on the Noumenia.
It was a day of relaxation and feasting for Athenian citizens, at home, or for males, with religious fraternities.
Wrestling matches also took place at the palaestra.
It was celebrated by a public ritual on the Acropolis and by private offerings of frankincense, flower garlands, wine, and barley cakes placed on home altars and household shrines to Hekate and Hermes, which had been freshly cleaned the day before as part of the Deipnon.
The official state rituals for this day included small offerings to gods and goddesses seen as protectors of Athens, such as Athena Polias and Poseidon, but the most important was made to the guardian snake of the city.
The snake was kept at the Erechtheum, a temple housing the cult statue of Athena Polias, the mark of Poseidon Erechtheus' Trident and the salt spring, the sacred olive tree that sprouted when Athena struck the rock with her spear, and the burial places of Athens first two kings, Cecrops and Erechtheus.
The snake was believed to be the living spirit of King Cecrops.
According to Herodotus, in Sparta, meat, barley meal and wine were distributed to the citizens by the Kings on the Noumenia.
Those reviving the indigenous religions of Greece perform many of the same household religious practices and hold the Noumenia as important as their ancient counterparts.
They make offerings such as incense or honey cakes to Selene, Apollon, Hestia, and their household Gods at their family altar.
Other ways they mark the day include decorating their home or home altar with fresh flowers, eating a special family meal, making honey cakes, and replacing the ingredients in the kathiskos with fresh water, oil, and fruit, and bits of food.
The Noumenia also considered an auspicious day to begin new projects.
David Berger (born March 8, 1968 in Würzburg) is a German theologian, author and gay activist.
From 1991 to 1998 Berger studied philosophy, Roman Catholic theology and German language and literature in Würzburg, Cologne and Dortmund.
Berger is a German neo-Thomist and a former professor of the Pontifical Academy of St. Thomas Aquinas in Rome, though the Catholic Church has since revoked his ability to teach religion.
Before that time, he worked as a religious education teacher at a high school in Erftstadt, Germany.
Until February 2015 he was the editor-in-chief of the gay periodical MÄNNER (Berlin).
In 2010, Berger wrote in his book Der heilige Schein: Als schwuler Theologe in der katholischen Kirche (“The holy sham: A gay theologian in the Catholic church”), that 20 to 40 percent of the Catholic clergy are homosexual.
Sigmund Freud's views on religion are described in several of his books and essays.
Freud regarded God as an illusion, based on the infantile need for a powerful father figure; religion, necessary to help us restrain violent impulses earlier in the development of civilization, can now be set aside in favor of reason and science.
In An Autobiographical Study, originally published in 1925, Freud recounts that "My parents were Jews, and I have remained a Jew myself."
Familiarity with Bible stories, from an age even before he learned to read, had "an enduring effect on the direction of my interest."
In 1873, upon attending the University at Vienna, he first encountered antisemitism: "I found that I was expected to feel myself inferior and an alien because I was a Jew."
In a prefatory note to the Hebrew translation of Totem and Taboo (1930) Freud describes himself as "an author who is ignorant of the language of holy writ, who is completely estranged from the religion of his fathers—as well as from every other religion" but who remains "in his essential nature a Jew and who has no desire to alter that nature".
In Obsessive Actions and Religious Practices (1907), his earliest writing about religion, Freud suggests that religion and neurosis are similar products of the human mind: neurosis, with its compulsive behavior, is "an individual religiosity", and religion, with its repetitive rituals, is a "universal obsessional neurosis."
In Totem and Taboo, published in 1913, Freud analyzes the tendency of primitive tribes to promulgate rules against incest within groups named for totem animal and objects, and to create taboos regarding actions, people and things.
He notes that taboos (such as that regarding incest) still play a significant role in modern society but that totemism "has long been abandoned as an actuality and replaced by newer forms".
Freud believes that an original act of patricide—the killing and devouring of "the violent primal father" was remembered and re-enacted as a "totem meal...mankind's earliest festival" which was "the beginning of so many things—of social organization, of moral restrictions and of religion".
Freud develops this idea further in Moses and Monotheism, his last book, discussed below.
He further goes to attribute creation of gods to humans: "...we know that, like gods, [demons] are only the product of the psychic powers of man; they have been created from and out of something."
In An Autobiographical Study Freud elaborated on the core idea of Totem and Taboo: "This view of religion throws a particularly clear light upon the psychological basis of Christianity, in which, it may be added, the ceremony of the totem-feast still survives with but little distortion in the form of Communion.".
In The Future of an Illusion (1927) Freud refers to religion as an illusion which is "perhaps the most important item in the psychical inventory of a civilization".
In his estimation, religion provides for defense against "the crushingly superior force of nature" and "the urge to rectify the shortcomings of civilization which made themselves painfully felt".
He concludes that all religious beliefs are "illusions and insusceptible of proof."
Freud then examines the issue of whether, without religion, people will feel "exempt from all obligation to obey the precepts of civilization".
He notes that "civilization has little to fear from educated people and brain-workers" in whom secular motives for morality replace religious ones; but he acknowledges the existence of "the great mass of the uneducated and oppressed" who may commit murder if not told that God forbids it, and who must be "held down most severely" unless "the relationship between civilization and religion" undergoes "a fundamental revision".
Freud asserts that dogmatic religious training contributes to a weakness of intellect by foreclosing lines of inquiry.
He argues that "[I]n the long run nothing can withstand reason and experience, and the contradiction which religion offers to both is all too palpable."
The book expressed Freud's "hope that in the future science will go beyond religion, and reason will replace faith in God."
In an afterword to An Autobiographical Study (1925, revised 1935), Freud states that his "essentially negative" view of religion changed somewhat after The Future of an Illusion; while religion's "power lies in the truth which it contains, I showed that that truth was not a material but a historical truth."
Harold Bloom calls The Future of an Illusion, "one of the great failures of religious criticism."
Bloom believes that Freud underestimated religion, and that as a result his criticisms of it were no more convincing that T. S. Eliot's criticisms of psychoanalysis.
Bloom suggests that psychoanalysis and Christianity are both interpretations of the world and of human nature, and that while Freud believed that religious beliefs are illusions and delusions, the same may be said of psychoanalytic theory.
In his view nothing is accomplished with regard to either Christianity or psychoanalysis by listing their illusions and delusions.
In Civilization and its Discontents, published in 1930, Freud says that man's need for religion could be explained by "a sensation of 'eternity', a feeling as of something limitless, unbounded—as it were, 'oceanic'", and adds, "I cannot discover this 'oceanic' feeling in myself".
Freud suggests that the "oceanic feeling", which his friend Romain Rolland had described to him in a letter, is a wish fulfillment, related to the child's egoistic need for protection.
James Strachey, editor and translator of this and other works of Freud, describes the main theme of the work as "the irremediable antagonism between the demands of instinct and the restrictions of civilization".
Freud also treats two other themes, the development of civilization recapitulating individual development, and the personal and social struggle between "Eros" and "Thanatos", life and death urges.
Freud expresses deep pessimism about the odds of humanity's reason triumphing over its destructive forces.
He added a final sentence to the book in a 1931 edition, when the threat of Hitler was already becoming apparent: "But who can foresee with what success and with what result?"
Moses and Monotheism was Freud's last book, published in 1939, the year of his death.
In it, Freud makes certain guesses and assumptions about Moses as a historical figure, particularly that he was not born Jewish but was adopted by Jews (the opposite of the Biblical story) and that he was murdered by his followers, who then via reaction formation revered him and became irrevocably committed to the monotheistic idea he represented.
Mark Edmundson comments that in writing Moses and Monotheism, Freud, while not abandoning his atheism, perceived for the first time a value in the abstract form of monotheism—the worship of an invisible God, without Jesus or saints—practiced by the Jews.
In Moses and Monotheism, Freud proposed that Moses had been a priest of Akhenaten who fled Egypt after the pharaoh's death and perpetuated monotheism through a different religion.
According to Jay Geller, Moses and Monotheism is full of "false starts, deferred conclusions, repetitions, rationalizations, defensive self-justifications, questionable methods, and weak arguments that are readily acknowledged as such by Freud."
In a 1949 essay in Commentary magazine, Irving Kristol says that Freud correctly exposed the irrationality of religion, but has not substituted anything beyond "a mythology of rational despair".
In a 1950 book entitled Christianity and Freud, Benjamin Gilbert Sanders draws parallels between the theory of psychoanalysis and Christian religion, referring to Jesus Christ as "the Great Psychiatrist" and Christians' love for Christ as "a more positive form of the Transference."
Karen Armstrong notes in A History of God that "not all psychoanalysts agreed with Freud's view of God," citing Alfred Adler, who believed God was a projection which had been "helpful to humanity", and C.G.
Jung, who, when asked whether he believed in God, said "Difficult to answer, I know.
I don't need to believe.
Tony Campolo, founder of the Evangelical Association for the Promotion of Education, observes that "With Freud, God, and the need for God-dictated restraints, had been abolished," resulting in an increase in social chaos and unhappiness which could have been avoided by adherence to religion.
A number of critics draw the parallel between religious beliefs and Freud's theories, that neither can be scientifically proven, but only experienced subjectively.
Lee Siegel writes that "you either grasp the reality of Freud's dynamic notion of the subconscious intuitively&nbsp;– the way, in fact, you do or do not grasp the truthfulness of Ecclesiastes&nbsp;– or you cannot accept that it exists."
Religious education is the term given to education concerned with religion.
It may refer to education provided by a church or religious organization, for instruction in doctrine and faith, or for education in various aspects of religion, but without explicitly religious or moral aims, e.g.
in a school or college.
The term is often known as religious studies.
Religious Education (RE) is a compulsory subject in the state education system in England.
Schools are required to teach a programme of religious studies according to local and national guidelines.
Religious Education in England is mandated by the Education Act 1944 as amended by the Education Reform Act 1988 and the School Standards and Framework Act 1998.
The provision of Religious Education is compulsory in all state-funded schools, but it is not compulsory for any of the children to take the subject.
The subject consists of the study of different religions, religious leaders, and other religious and moral themes.
However, the curriculum is required to reflect the predominant place of Christianity in religious life and hence Christianity forms the majority of the content of the subject.
All parents have the right to withdraw a child from religious education, which schools must approve.
Additionally, all schools are required by law to provide a daily act of collective worship, of which at least 51% must be Christian in basis over the course of the academic year.
Sarah Smalley, the chair of the Association of Religious Education inspectors, advisors and consultants, stated that some "schools did have problems fulfilling the requirement for worship" due to what they thought was "a lack of space to gather the entire school for worship" although Smalley noted that "there is actually no requirement for such a gathering, as smaller groups are allowed."
The National Union of Teachers suggested in 2008 that parents should have a right to have specific schooling in their own faith and that imams, rabbis and priests should be invited to offer religious instruction to pupils in all state schools.
England has a Local Agreed Syllabus which mandate subject teaching for each Key Stage and possibly for each school year.
The Qualifications and Curriculum Authority has also produced the non-statutory National Framework for Religious Education, which provides guidelines for the provision of RE at all key stages, and models the eight-levels as applied in National Curriculum subjects.
In France, RE is replaced by a non-religious moral teaching (called civic, legal and social education : éducation civique, juridique et sociale, ECJS).
Children can additionally receive, on a voluntary basis, a religious education, either at school in private religious school, or outside of school, in their religious community, if they are in a public (State) school, though in some rare regions, the old Concordat being still an obligation because of the German occupation and the strong stand of population in favour of this (in the Alsace-Moselle mainly), religious education is made compulsory, and a dispense is necessary if the child refuses to be following religious education, which is set catholic.
In Ireland religion is taught in a subject called Religious Education which is compulsory in many schools for the Junior Certificate, but available as an option for the Leaving Certificate.
The course educates students about communities of faith, the foundations of the major world religions, the sacred texts, religious practices and festivals for Muslims, Jews, Hindus, Buddhists and Christians.
Students also learn about religious change in Ireland, meaning in life, religious and non-religious responses to the search for meaning, atheism, agnosticism and other forms of belief.
Students are also educated about morality in a number of different faiths and their moral codes.
Israeli school system includes State Schools; Religious State Schools; Recognized Schools and Exempt Schools, whose students are regarded as fulfilling the obligatory education.
The prevailing view is that the religious education would contravene the constitutional separation of state and religion.
In place of RE, there is a short but nonetheless compulsory subject called in primary school, where the purpose is to teach moral values rather than to teach ethics as an academic subject.
However, despite the stated secular stance, references to the majority religions of Shinto and Buddhism are sometimes made in class texts.
Being a secular country, with no state religion, Lebanon is expected to have a neutral position regarding religious education in its schools, which is not the case in the country, as well as many European and American countries.
Lebanon doesn't have a law concerning RE in its educational establishments.
Schools have the right to either give RE classes, or do the opposite.
Religious classes are not obligatory, nor banned, and they are not replaced by "ethics" classes.
Private Schools (Christian and Muslim) give mandatory religious classes, reflecting their religious identification.
Students from other religions don't take any classes during the religious ones, but they always can sign up for the RE class.
Catholic schools give only Catholic classes, mandatory for Christian students, but can be signed up for by Muslim students, if not, Muslims do not take any classes in parallel to Christian ones.
Public schools kind of have a more liberal religious program.
A Lebanese public school may give, or not give RE classes, which regard the predominant religion of the population in the area the school is located in.
Students have to take these classes, whether they are Christian or Muslim.
A public school located in a mixed area would prefer not to give RE classes, unless voted oppositely by locals, RE classes may be both Christian and Muslim at the same time in this case, and students divide when this happens.
The Malaysian education system makes Moral Studies compulsory for non-Muslim students at secondary and primary schools.
Muslim students instead partake in Islamic Studies lessons.
Both subjects figure among the seven compulsory subjects undertaken by students for the Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia.
There has been considerable debate about the usefulness of the "Moral" subject, primarily due to the strict exam-oriented marking-schemes.
Article 2 of the Constitution of Norway mandates Evangelical-Lutheran parents to provide a religious upbringing for their children.
In Scottish state schools, Religious Education is called Religious and Moral Education from ages 5 to 14, and Religious, Moral and Philosophical Studies from 14 to 18.
The majority of state schools in are non-denominational, but as a result of the Education Act 1918, separate denominational state schools were also established.
The vast majority of denominational state schools are Roman Catholic but there are also a number of Scottish Episcopal schools.
The school buildings are built and maintained by the Roman Catholic Church were handed over to the state under the Education Act.
Since then,the Catholic schools are fully funded by the Scottish Government and administered by the Education and Lifelong Learning Directorate.
As part of the deal, there are specific legal provisions to ensure the promotion of a Catholic ethos in such schools: applicants for positions in the areas of Religious Education, Guidance or Senior Management must be approved by the Roman Catholic Church in Scotland, which also appoints a chaplain to each of its schools.
There is also one Jewish state primary school.
The South African National Policy on Religion and Education adopted in September 2003 provides for Religion Education, i.e.
education about diverse religions, which does not promote any particular religion in the public school curriculum.
The policy does not apply to private schools.
bg:Религиозно обучение de:Religionsunterricht hr:Vjeronauk ja:宗教教育 fi:Uskonnon opetus tr:Dinî öğretim
Buddhism in Buryatia—a regional form of Buddhism.
Historical evidence gives reason to believe that, from the 2nd century BCE, proto-Mongol peoples (the Xiongnu, Xianbei, and Khitans) were familiar with Buddhism.
On the territory of the Ivolginsk Settlement, remains of Buddhist prayer beads were found in a Xiongnu grave.
At the beginning of the 17th century, Tibetan Buddhism penetrated northward from Mongolia to reach the Buryat population of Transbaikalia (the area just east of Lake Baikal).
Initially, Buddhism disseminated primarily among the ethnic groups that had recently migrated out of Khalkha Mongolia (the Selenga and Zede Buryats).
At the end of the 17th to the beginning of the 18th centuries, it spread throughout the Transbaikal region.
A second branch came directly from Tibet, from the Labrang Monastery in Amdo.
Buddhism in Buryatia is the northernmost extension of Vajrayana Buddhism in Central Asia.
It is primarily the Gelug tradition from Tibet, although there are signs of influence from the Nyingma tradition as well.
Buddhist followers in Buryatia revere the founder of the Gelug school, the great guru Tsongkhapa (called Zonhobo in Buryat), on par with the founder of the entire Buddhist tradition, Shakyamuni Buddha.
Gelug adherents in Buryatia prefer to either use this self-designation for the tradition, or the general terms "teachings of the Buddha" or "Mahayana doctrine."
Buryat Buddhism shows slight deviations from general Mahayana tradition mainly in its system of religious practice, in its rituals and magical practices, and are due to the influence of traditional, more ancient and archaic beliefs, practices, and rituals of the Tibetans and of the Buryat-Mongols.
In particular, the religious system of Buddhism incorporated and assimilated traditional folk ceremonies, rituals, and beliefs associated with the honoring of ovoos, paying homage to spirits of the land, mountains, rivers, and trees.
Among monastic religious practices, those of tantric origin, forming the basis of Vajrayana Buddhism, play an important role.
In its philosophical, psychological and ethical teachings, Buryat Buddhism does not differ significantly from the fundamental provisions of Mahayana Buddhism as presented in the Tibetan version of the Buddhist canon referred to as the Kangyur (Ganzhuur in Buryat; 108 volumes) and the Tengyur (Danzhuur in Buryat; 225 volumes).
Buddhism has had a tremendous impact on the development of culture and scholarship among the Buryat-Mongols, particularly on the formation and development of philosophical thought, norms of morality, mental development, fictional literature, art, cooking, and aspects of alternative medicine including chronobiology and bioenergetics.
Among the great variety of religious practices at Buryat datsans, there are six large ceremonies that take place: Sagaalgan (New Year); Duynher (Kalachakra); Gandan-Shunserme (the birth, enlightenment and parinirvana of Shakyamuni Buddha); Maidari-Hural (the anticipated coming of Maitreya, the buddha of the next world epoch); Lhabab-Duysen (Buddha's descent from the heaven called Tushita); and Zul-Hural (commemoration of Tsongkhapa).
Datsans in Buryatia and in the Chita and Irkutsk Oblasts:
Hijri Dede was a poet from Kirkuk, Iraq.
He wrote primarily in Turkmen, but also wrote in Persian and Kurdish.
He was believed to belong Kirkurk's Gurani-Kurdish, however the poet's ethnicity and religious beliefs are still a source of controversy, reflecting the ethnic nature of Kirkuk.
Some Turkmen nationalists consider him as one of their own.
The poet, as almost all of the other Gurani, was usually quite secretive about his religious beliefs and practices: when asked by outsiders, he would often claim to be Orthodox Sunni or, sometimes, Twelver Shi'a.
According to some sources, Hijri Dede died in December 1952.
Journal of Asia Adventist Seminary (JAAS) is a refereed scholarly Christian journal published by the Adventist International Institute of Advanced Studies formerly titled Asia Adventist Seminary Studies.
It is issued twice a year from Silang, Cavite.
The journal was founded in 1999 and currently has a circulation of 200 copies.
AUSS publishes research articles and brief notes on the following topics: biblical archaeology and history of antiquity; Hebrew Bible; New Testament; church history of all periods; historical, biblical, and systematic theology; ethics; history of religion and mission; and selected research articles on ministry and Christian education.
Abstracts of Adventist International Institute of Advanced Studies dissertations in religion are also published.
Most of the articles are written by Seventh-day Adventist scholars, many of them Theological Seminary professors.
However, subject to the refereeing process, JAAS accepts articles by authors of other persuasions.
Since 2014 JAAS includes reviews of significant new scholarly books in the same areas as its research articles.
Articles are indexed in several scholarly bibliographical works, among which are Religion Index One and Elenchus of Biblica.
Dionysius is a scholarly journal published by the Department of Classics at Dalhousie University.
It was established originally in 1977, and a new series began in 1998.
It publishes articles on the history of ancient philosophy and theology, and has a special interest in the Aristotelian and Neoplatonic traditions.
It also publishes more general articles relating to literature, history, and religion.
The original editors-in-chief were J.A.
Doull, R.D.
Crouse, and A. H. Armstrong, whose Form, Individual, and Person in Plotinus appeared in the first volume.
A number of distinguished scholars were among the original editorial advisors, and many of them made contributions in due course to the journal.
Examples include Werner Beierwaltes' Negati Affirmatio or The World as Metaphor: A Foundation for Medieval Aesthetics from the Writings of John Scotus Eriugena and his Cusanus and Eriugena; Mary T. Clark's Augustine's Theology of the Trinity: Its Relevance; J.N.
Findlay's The Myths of Plato; Hans-Georg Gadamer's Plato's "Parmenides" and Its Influence; and George Grant's Nietzsche and the Ancients: Philosophy and Scholarship.
Ahmed Hussein Al-Harqan (born 10 December 1982) is an Egyptian atheist human rights activist.
Ahmed Harqan grew up in a Muslim family oriented toward the Salafi movement in Islam.
He received religious education from the Islamic scholar Ahmed Al-Burhami.
He spent a large part of his youth as an ultra-conservative Salafist and "Muslim fundamentalist".
In 2010 Harqan abandoned Islam after a long period of doubt about his religious practices and beliefs.
The transformation took its toll on Harqan and led him to burn all his religious certificates and start his education from scratch.
Since then Harqan has been among the few non-believers in Egypt, who has dared to speak openly about being atheist and Harqan has appeared on several Egyptian talk shows to speak about non-religious rights.
In a TV-show on the channel Al-Kahera Wal-Nas on October 21, 2014, Harqan explained why he had become an atheist and said that Islam is a "harsh religion," which was being implemented by ISIS and Boko Haram.
They are doing "what the Prophet Muhammad and his companions did," said Harqan.
The TV-show was Taht al Koubry (under the bridge) with Tony Khalife According to media reports, Harqan and his pregnant wife, Nada Mandour (Saly) Harqan, survived an assassination attempt 4 days later - in the evening of October 25, 2014.
Harqan managed to flee with his wife after having some injuries and went to the Alhanafie–Alajlany police station to report the incident along with their friend Karim Jimy.
Instead of taking action to help Harqan and his wife, the police officers further assaulted them and they were imprisoned charged with blasphemy and "defamation of religion" under article 98 in the Egyptian penal code for asking "What has ISIS done that Muhammad did not do?” on a popular Egyptian television talk show.
Harqan's lawyer was humiliated and kicked out of the police station.
Eventually Ahmad and Saly Harqan, and their friend Kareem Jimy were released and charges against them were dropped.
Walter Hugo Hermann Baetke (28 March 1884, Sternberg in der Neumark – 15 February 1978, Leipzig) was a German professor of Scandinavian studies and religious studies.
He was Professor of the History of Religion at the University of Leipzig.
Baetke's father, Wilhelm Baetke, was a police official.
Baetke attended a gymnasium in Stettin.
From 1902 to 1907, Baetke studied Germanic studies, English studies, education and philosophy at the Universities of Halle and Berlin, graduating from Halle in 1907 with a qualification to teach in higher education and earning a doctorate in English there in 1908 with a thesis on children in the works of Shakespeare's contemporaries and successors.
He then worked as a school examiner and at another gymnasium in Stettin and from 1913 to 1935 was head of a school in Bergen auf Rügen.
After one year teaching the history of Germanic religion at the University of Greifswald, he was appointed Professor of the History of Religion at the University of Leipzig in 1936.
In 1946 he received an honorary doctorate from the Faculty of Theology and was also appointed to an additional position as Professor of Nordic Philology.
He also headed the university's Institute for the History of Religion.
From 1947 to 1949, he was Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy.
He retired in 1955 but from 1955 to 1959 held an emeritus position as "commissar" of the Institute for the History of Religion and the Old Norse division of the Institute for Germanic Studies.
His academic work focussed on ancient Germanic religion, on which he published extensively.
Already before World War II, he was known as "a critic of romantic excess" in interpretations.
In his 1934 Art und Glaube der Germanen, he rejected Herman Wirth's view of the genuineness and importance of the Oera Linda Book and also systematically opposed Bernhard Kummer's views in Midgards Untergang.
In 1942 in Das Heilige im Germanischen, he opposed Rudolf Otto's influential viewpoint that the source of religion lay in a "stirring in the heart" of awareness of the numinous, arguing that all religious experience has a social and historical context.
In Yngvi und die Ynglinger (1964) he dismissed the widely accepted view espoused by, for example, Otto Höfler that Germanic peoples had sacral kingship.
The issue and his arguments are still debated today: in a re-examination in 2004, Olof Sundqvist substantially agreed, finding that "this paradigm [sacral kingship] implies a number of methodological difficulties"; Francis Oakley, however, argued in 2010 that although Baetke successfully rebutted the notion that Scandinavian kings were worshipped, he could not dismiss the evidence that they had some sacral status as mediators with the gods.
Baetke joined the conservative German National People's Party in 1926 and was a member until 1932.
From 1934 until the end of the war, he belonged to the National Socialist People's Welfare organisation.
However, he never joined the Nazi Party or any of its subsidiaries, including the Reich Author's Organisation, and during the war his election to the examining board of the Faculty of Theology at the University of Leipzig and to the Saxon Academy of Sciences both went unratified by the regime.
In 1946 he joined the SPD and subsequently became a member of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany, the official party of the Soviet Occupation Zone and later of East Germany.
He was a member of the Confessing Church and was a delegate to the conference of the World Council of Churches in Amsterdam in 1948 from the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Saxony.
Baetke was married twice: in 1911 to Agnes Kirsten (1885&ndash;1945) and in 1948 to Erna Knegendorf (1903&ndash;2000).
Both his wives were teachers.
In 1949/50 Baetke lectured at the Universities of Lund and Uppsala, the first German academic to be invited to do so in Sweden since the war.
Simon Themstrup Michelet (8 February 1863 – 15 October 1942) was a Norwegian theologian.
He was born in Trondhjem as a son of customs officer Joseph Frantz Oscar Michelet (1832–1913) and Caroline Julie Laache (1833–1915).
His grandfather was a brother of Christian Frederik Michelet and father of Carl Johan Michelet.
On the paternal side he was a second cousin of major Christian Fredrik Michelet and politician Christian Fredrik Michelet.
On the maternal side he was a first cousin of Søren Bloch Laache, He grew up in Hidra and Trondhjem.
He finished his secondary education in 1881, and decided to study theology.
He was taken into the home of priest Johan C. H. Storjohann, where he met his future wife Marie Elisabeth Storjohann (1866–1951).
They married in September 1888.
Simon's sister was named Marie as well, and she married Elling Holst.
He graduated with the cand.theol.
degree in 1887, and took the practical priest education in 1888.
He also taught at the schools Aars og Voss and Trondhjem Cathedral School from 1887 to 1888.
He studied further in Leipzig; first history of religion and Indian languages, then the theology of the New Testament.
In 1894 he took the dr.theol.
degree with the thesis Amos, oversat og fortolket on the Book of Amos.
He worked as a teacher and priest until being appointed as a professor of theology in 1896.
He was also a dean of the Faculty of Theology, and finally retired in 1933.
He was also an editorial board member of Norsk Teologisk Tidsskrift from 1900 to 1926.
He was a fellow of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.
Publications include Fra Moses til profetene (1915), Fra profetene til Jesus Kristus (1919) and Kristendom og rationalisme (1927).
He also participated in a translation of the Old Testament.
He also chaired the Student Christian Movement in Norway from 1899 to 1903 and 1914 to 1924.
He edited their magazine Excelsior from 1904 to 1917.
He was also involved in social work.
He was decorated as a Knight, First Class of the Order of St. Olav in 1911, and died in October 1942 in Bærum.
Józef Stala (born December 6, 1966) is a polish Catholic priest, theologian, and philosopher.
He was ordained on May 25, 1991.
From 1985 until 1991 Stala studied Philosophy and Theology, 1985 and 1986 at the Seminary Gościkowo-Paradyż and from 1986 to 1991 in Tarnów.
On May 31, 1991, he finished his studies with Magister of Theology at the Pontifical academy in Kraków (now: Pontifical University of John Paul II).
After studies at the Warsaw Theological Academy (now: Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw he earned at May 15, 1995 the Licentiate, at June 8, 1998 the Doctorate and in 2005 the Habilitation with his book: "Katecheza o małżeństwie i rodzinie w Polsce po Soborze Watykańskim II."
(Religious education in the Families in Poland after the Second Vatican Council) at the Pontifical University of John Paul II.
Today (2013) Stala, priest of Tarnów diocese, is Associate Professor of Catechetics and Vice Dean for Research, Development and Cooperation and the Head of the Research Section of Pedagogical and Catechetical Studies at the Pontifical University of John Paul II in Cracow (UPJPII), Theology Faculty, Section in Tarnów (WTST), coordinator of Erasmus Programme at the WTST and editor in chief of the international scientific journal The Person and the Challenges.
Stala was elected into the academic senate to become prorector of science and international cooperation of the Pontifical University in Cracow for the period from 2014 until 2018.
Eleanor "Elly" Humes Haney (December 30, 1931 &ndash; July 10, 1999) was an American feminist theologian and community activist.
Haney was born in Milford, Delaware, on December 30, 1931.
She died on July 10, 1999, in Phippsburg, Maine.
Haney attended The College of William & Mary, where she received a B.A.
in English.
She attended Wellesley College, where she received an M.A.
in English.
She obtained a Masters Degree in Religious Education (MRE) from the Presbyterian School of Christian Education.
She then went to Yale University where she obtained a Ph.D. in Christian Ethics.
Haney held a number of teaching positions at different schools in the New England area: Virginia Union, Concordia College, the University of New England, Westbrook College, MECA, Bangor Theological Seminary and the University of Southern Maine.
She wrote six books on feminist theology, ecological ethics, economic justice, anti-racism and alliance-building, the most important being A Feminist Legacy: The Ethics of Wilma Scott Heide and Company (1985).
Heide was the third national President of the National Organization for Women (NOW).
Haney also wrote The Great Commandment: A Theology of Resistance and Transformation (Pilgrim Press, 1998).
Haney was a member of Phi Beta Kappa Society.
She received the Hartman Award from the University of Maine in 1998.
The Bangor Daily News described her as a "theology pioneer" and said she had "a major impact on Maine."
The Eleanor Humes Haney Fund (or foundation) is a charitable foundation funded by a grant from Haney.
The aims of the fund are to give grants to charitable organisations in the New England Area that strive to: The fund has supported initiatives like :
The American Indian Religious Freedom Act, Public Law No.
95-341, 92 Stat.
469 (Aug. 11, 1978) (commonly abbreviated to AIRFA), codified at , is a United States federal law, enacted by joint resolution of the Congress in 1978.
It was enacted to protect and preserve the traditional religious rights and cultural practices of American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, and Native Hawaiians.
These rights include, but are not limited to, access to sacred sites, freedom to worship through ceremonial and traditional rights, and use and possession of objects considered sacred.
The Act required policies of all governmental agencies to eliminate interference with the free exercise of Native American religion, based on the First Amendment, and to accommodate access to and use of religious sites to the extent that the use is practicable and is not inconsistent with an agency's essential functions.
It also acknowledges the prior violation of that right.
American Indian religious practices have often been at odds with existing federal laws and government policies.
There have been three general areas of conflict.
Firstly, American Indians did not have access to a number of sacred places that the tribes had traditionally used in religious ceremonies.
Native American religious practices often came into conflict with the idea that American public lands exist for the use and benefit of the American people.
The results of the passage of the Indian Removal Act and the General Allotment Act were the displacement of hundreds of tribes, including the Five Civilized Tribes of the southeastern United States, and the forced assimilation of Native American families into agricultural settler societies.
The second conflict was the possession by tribal members of ceremonial items that are restricted under United States law, such as eagle feathers or bones (under laws to protect threatened species), or peyote, a ritual drug and restricted substance.
The conflict lies in the fact that items such as peyote are integral parts of ceremonies practiced by members of churches such as the Native American Church.
The importance of eagle bones for use in traditional religious ceremonies has been repeatedly cited in cases involving Indian claims on hunting and fishing rights to allow tribal member to hunt for eagles.
The third general area of conflict was an issue of interference.
Sacred ceremonies were sometimes subject to interference from overzealous officials or curious onlookers.
The act acknowledged prior federal infringement on the right of freedom of religion for American Indians by denying them their First Amendment right of "free exercise" of religion.
President Jimmy Carter said, in a statement about the AIRFA: <blockquote>In the past, Government agencies and departments have on occasion denied Native Americans access to particular sites and interfered with religious practices and customs where such use conflicted with Federal regulations.
In many instances, the Federal officials responsible for the enforcement of these regulations were unaware of the nature of traditional native religious practices and, consequently, of the degree to which their agencies interfered with such practices.< <blockquote>This legislation seeks to remedy this situation.< Section 2 of the AIRFA directs federal agencies to consult with American Indian spiritual leaders to determine appropriate procedures to protect the inherent rights of American Indians, as laid out it the act.
<blockquote> Public Law 95-341<br> 95th Congress Joint Resolution<br> American Indian Religious Freedom.
Whereas the freedom of religion for all people is an inherent right, fundamental to the democratic structure of the United States and is guaranteed by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution; Whereas the United States has traditionally rejected the concept of a government denying individuals the right to practice their religion, and as a result, has benefited from a rich variety of religious heritages in this country; Whereas the religious practices of the American Indian (as well as Native Alaskan and Hawaiian) are an integral part of their culture, tradition, and heritage, such practices forming the basis of Indian identity and value systems; Whereas the traditional American Indian religions as an integral part of Indian life, are indispensable and irreplaceable; Whereas the lack of a clear, comprehensive, and consistent Federal policy has often resulted in the abridgment of religious freedom for traditional American Indians; Whereas such religious infringements result from the lack of knowledge of the insensitive and inflexible enforcement of Federal policies and regulations premised on a variety of laws; Whereas such laws were designed for such worthwhile purposes as conservation and preservation of natural species and resources but were never intended to relate to Indian religious practices and, there, were passed without consideration of their effect on traditional American Indian religions; Whereas such laws and policies often deny American Indians access to sacred sites required in their religions, including cemeteries; Whereas such laws at times prohibit the use and possession of sacred objects necessary to the exercise of religious rites and ceremonies; Whereas traditional American Indian ceremonies have been intruded upon, interfered with, and in a few instances banned; Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of American in Congress Assembled, That henceforth it shall be the policy of the United States to protect and preserve for American Indians their inherent right of freedom to believe, express, and exercise the traditional religions of the American Indian, Eskimo, Aleut, and Native Hawaiians, including but not limited to access to sites, use and possession of sacred objects, and the freedom to worship through ceremonials and traditional rites.
The President shall direct that various Federal departments, agencies, and other instrumentalities responsible for the administering relevant laws to evaluate their policies and procedures in consultation with Native traditional religious leaders in order to determine appropriate changes necessary to protect and preserve Native American religious cultural rights and practices.
Twelve months after approval of this resolution, the President shall report back to Congress the results of his evaluation, including any changes which were made in administrative policies and procedures, and any recommendations he may have for legislative action.
Native American tribes had traditionally been closely associated with their lands, and their religious practices and beliefs were based in specific geographic areas.
Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Association (1988) is a landmark case in the Supreme Court's decisions affecting Native American religion under the AIRFA.
The bureaucratic decisions to alter land sites implemented by the Court on this case, constitute invasions of tribal self-understanding.
This case helped to prove that the dissipation of tribal identity is the consequence of land desecration.
The fact that land desecration is allowed to happen so easily is a result of the absence of enforcement and stability within the terms of the American Indian Religious Freedom Act.
The Forest Service wanted to build a road that went directly through the sacred lands of the Yurok, Tolowa, and Karok tribes.
Under Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Association, in 1988 the tribe filed suit against the government for denying their rights to religious freedom under the first amendment by ruling in favor of the United States Forest Service.
Tribal leaders testified that the road would destroy parts of the pristine mountains and high country that the tribes considered sacred and essential to their religious beliefs and practices.
They expressed their concerns in court, outlining the burden imposed upon their religious freedom.
However, the court determined that, because the tribes had not stated a requisite legal burden on those rights, that they could not receive protection under the AIRFA.
The Theodoratus Report was a comprehensive study prompted by the American Indian Religious Freedom Act during Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Association and conducted by the United States Forest Service in order to evaluate policies and procedures to protect Native American religious cultural rights and practices.
This study was done in order to provide definitive information on the effects of the Forest Service's actions on Native American religious culture in high country.
This study was completed in April 1979 and was titled Cultural Resources of the Chimney Rock Section, Gasquet-Orleans Road, Six Rivers National Forest and was written by Dr. Dorothea J. Theodoratus, Dr. Joseph L. Chartkoff, and Ms. Kerry K. Chartkoff.
It was a compilation of ethnographic, archaeological and historical data that identified the culture contained in the area that the Forest Service proposed to be the site of the Chimney Rock Section of the Gasquet-Orleans Road.
This culture belonged to the Yurok, Karok, and Tolowa peoples.
In its final recommendations, the report criticizes the Forest Service for ignorance of the physical and historical significance and religious importance of the site proposed for road construction.
The report warned the Forest Service against the ruinous impact of road construction, and its logging and mining operations.
It said the philosophy that high country is solely a natural resource to be managed and improved was at fault.
The report traced the long history of this site as sacred to succeeding cultures of indigenous peoples, whose connection could be documented from prehistory.
The report stated that the only appropriate management of such land should be its preservation in a natural state.
The Theodoratus Report, in effect, established a guideline by which the Forest Service would be able to understand the importance of land to Native American culture.
Because they had commissioned the report and recognized its significance they conformed with the AIRFA in the Lyng case, but it was the Theodoratus Report, not the AIRFA, that compelled the Forest Service to follow the report's collection of data on the religious significance of the high country.
However, nothing within the AIRFA prevented the Forest Service from ignoring the warning of its own commissioned report concerning the destruction of the Yurok, Karok, and Tolowa religious traditions.
This case's decision states that tribes have no First Amendment right of religious freedom that can halt federal land management of public lands that contain sacred tribal spaces.
This decision became the standing precedent that threatened the survival of any traditional Native American community whose sacred lands, by the fault of the government's history of Indian affairs, are on public land rather than on reservations.
The Supreme Court advocated its decision to refuse the countenance of the religious valuation of land as representing its responsibility towards enforcing the First Amendment rights of the Native American plaintiff.
In Employment Division v. Smith (1990), the Court ruled against the Native American Church its constitutional rights.
Alfred Smith, a Native American who had been born on the Klamath Reservation in Oregon, was fired from his job at an agency in Roseburg, Oregon that helped develop services for Native American clientele.
His termination was based on his attendance at ceremonies of the Native American Church, which uses peyote as a sacrament.
Because it is a restricted substance under drug laws, Smith was fired for his use of it.
Another member of the N.A.C.
was also fired from the agency for the same reason.
When denied unemployment compensation, Smith and his co-worker challenged the grounds of their terminations.
Smith took his case to the Oregon courts, which ruled in his favor of protected use of peyote under the free-exercise clause of AIRFA.
The U.S. Supreme Court reviewed the case, and overturned the Oregon court ruling.
The Supreme Court stated that they could in fact be denied unemployment benefits because by using peyote they were in violation of state criminal law.
The Smith decision prompted the development of the Native American Religious Freedom Project which involved and concerned almost every Native American tribe in the country.
The case was taken up with Congress, and in 1993 the Religious Freedom Restoration Act was passed, and by 1994 the American Indian Religious Freedom Act Amendments were passed as Public Law 103-344.
The Amendments restored the constitutional rights of the Native American Church.
The major criticism of the American Indian Religious Freedom Act was its inability to enforce its provisions, therefore its inability to provide religious freedom without condition.
The act served as more of a joint resolution than an actual law.
Its failure to protect certain sacred sites proved detrimental to Native American cultures and religions as a whole.
The Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Association decision represented a unique convergence of religion, law, and land, and confirmed the American Indian Religious Freedom Act as a hollow excess of words.
The Supreme Court itself declared that the legislation had no firm grasp on what it stood for.
There was nothing in the Act that mandated changes pursuant to the review process prior to its amendment in 1994.
The case illustrates that compliance with the review procedure of the AIRFA does not provide any assurance that judicial protections or substantive agency will be offered to Native American religious belief and practice, even if the serious endangerment to Native American religion from proposed government action is recognized within that review procedure.
Due to the criticism of the AIRFA and its inability to enforce the provisions it outlined in 1978, on June 10, 1994 the House of Representatives Committee on Natural resources, and later the Subcommittee on Native American Affairs, met to bring about H.R.
4155 in order to provide for the management of federal lands in a way that doesn't frustrate the traditional religions and religious purposes of Native Americans.
The full text is available on the Library of Congress website.
However, it never became law.
In 1994, Congress passed H.R.
4230 to amend the American Indian Religious Freedom Act, in order to provide for protected use of peyote as a sacrament in traditional religious ceremonies.
This was passed as Public Law No 103-344 on October 6, 1994, with full text as below.
<blockquote> Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
Hidayet Şefkatli Tuksal (born 1963) is a Turkish human rights activist, Islamic feminist and columnist.
She lectures in theology at Mardin Artuklu University.
Hidayet Şefkatli Tuksal was born in 1963 in Ankara, Turkey to a Muslim family from the Balkans.
In 1980 she enrolled in the theology faculty of Ankara University.
She joined a religious order during her time there and started veiling.
She received a PhD in Islamic theology from there.
In 1994, Tuksal co-founded the Capital Women's Platform (Baskent Kadin Platform).
The Platform challenged the religious basis of sexism and brought attention to the discrimination and injustice experienced by religious women in secular settings.
Tuksal undertook postgraduate studies in philosophy at Middle East Technical University.
After experiencing obstructions and attacks due to her headscarf, she was forced to abandon the university.
She opened a clothing store with her sisters and mother after she was unable to find a job she enjoyed.
Tuksal taught at an İmam Hatip school for a time before enrolling in a doctoral program.
Following the 1997 postmodern coup and February 28 process, headscarves were banned in Turkish educational institutions.
Tuksal identified this as a women's issue, and related that women who wear headscarves were most adversely affected by the process.
She noted that even some conservative Muslim and Islamist men did not consider women wearing headscarves in Islamist institutions to be presentable due to the prevalent Kemalist discourse.
Tuksal identifies as a religious feminist.
She has studied religious texts and challenged Islamist ideas that lead to the marginalization of women.
She authored an academic study of gender bias in hadith in 2001.
She has called for the resolution of contradictory assertions about the rights of women in the hadiths.
Tuksal also wrote a history of Turkey's Islamist women's movement.
She has noted the divide between Islamic and secular feminists in Turkey.
Beginning in 2012, Tuksal was a columnist for the newspaper Taraf.
Tuksal 1995 was involved in the founding of the Muslim-conservative "platform capital Women" (Baskent Kadin Platformu) and took over several times in the chair.
Concerns of the platform was the fight against discrimination of women wearing headscarves, and the fight against honor killings.
Tuksal wrote a book titled "Kadın Karşıtı Söylemin İslam Geleneğindeki İzdüşümleri" (Ankara, 2001).
It describes misogyny as projections Islamic tradition.
According Tuksal misogynistic views in the Islamic sources that time mirrors the patriarchal society in early Islam.
There they indignant that the Koran allow to beat women.
This is contrary to many traditions.
Traditions that represented Mohammed as if he had his wives harassed, should be dropped.
For the legislative proposals, with the ACP adultery wanted to criminalize, silent Tuksal 2004.
It justified this by saying that it would otherwise have looked like when it was in favor of adultery.
In 2008 she signed the campaign I apologize for the Armenian genocide.
Primary and secondary education, after completing various schools, between the years 1980-1985 Ankara University Faculty of Theology 'which was on higher education.
"Opponents of women's narrations on the patriarchal tradition Influences" gave his doctorate with his thesis.
Since 1994, Capital City Women's Platform is an active member.
He is currently working on Islam and women's issues.
Yuanjia'ao (袁家嶴) is a village in Fenghua municipality, Zhejiang province, China.
280m above sea level in the Tiantai Mountain range, its main products are bamboo and timber.
The village is traditionally considered the ancestral home of the Yuans of the greater Ningbo, who have been estimated to number some 20,000.
The village itself is split in two by the Tangqi River, a small stream which can flood in the autumn months.
Yuanjia'ao is famous in Fenghua because it is a thoroughfare to Malongkeng, a religious site near the peak of Mount Dalei.
There is a narrow concrete road to Yuanjia'ao from Xiaowangmiao in the north, which follows the Tangqi River all the way to Xujiashan in the south.
On the 18th day of the sixth lunar month, when the religious festival to honour the dragon king of Malongkeng is held, the road becomes heavily congested.
Of the 400 families of Yuanjia'ao, over 90% are surnamed Yuan.
According to the Yuanshi jiapu of 1923, all the Yuans of the village are descended from a certain Yuan Rong (袁蓉), who moved from Xinchang county and settled at the site in the tenth century.
The village also has wider significance as the ancestral home of the Yuan clans of Ningbo and its hinterlands.
Efforts have been made in recent years to revive and restore the clan monuments and religious buildings which were destroyed during the Cultural Revolution.
In 1997, a clan hall was reopened, and the Duling Temple and its connected memorial arch was erected.
Since 2001, clan members have been studying the last remaining copy of the clan genealogy held by the Fenghua government and liaising with members of the Cilin Yuan clan to republish the genealogy.
The emergence of religious behavior by the Neolithic period has been discussed in terms of evolutionary psychology, the origin of language and mythology, cross-cultural comparison of the anthropology of religion, as well as evidence for spirituality or cultic behaviour in the Upper Paleolithic, and similarities in great ape behaviour.
Humanity’s closest living relatives are common chimpanzees and bonobos.
These primates share a common ancestor with humans who lived between six and eight million years ago.
It is for this reason that chimpanzees and bonobos are viewed as the best available surrogate for this common ancestor.
Barbara King argues that while non-human primates are not religious, they do exhibit some traits that would have been necessary for the evolution of religion.
These traits include high intelligence, a capacity for symbolic communication, a sense of social norms, realization of "self" and a concept of continuity.
There is inconclusive evidence that Homo neanderthalensis may have buried their dead which is evidence of the use of ritual.
The use of burial rituals is thought to be evidence of religious activity, and there is no other evidence that religion existed in human culture before humans reached behavioral modernity.
Elephants, however, actually demonstrate rituals around their deceased, which includes long periods of silence and mourning at the point of death and a process of returning to grave sites and caressing the remains.
Marc Bekoff, Professor Emeritus of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of Colorado, Boulder, argues that many species grieve death and loss.
In this set of theories, the religious mind is one consequence of a brain that is large enough to formulate religious and philosophical ideas.
During human evolution, the hominid brain tripled in size, peaking 500,000 years ago.
Much of the brain's expansion took place in the neocortex.
This part of the brain is involved in processing higher order cognitive functions that are connected with human religiosity.
The neocortex is associated with self-consciousness, language and emotion .
According to Dunbar's theory, the relative neocortex size of any species correlates with the level of social complexity of the particular species.
The neocortex size correlates with a number of social variables that include social group size and complexity of mating behaviors.
In chimpanzees the neocortex occupies 50% of the brain, whereas in modern humans it occupies 80% of the brain.
Robin Dunbar argues that the critical event in the evolution of the neocortex took place at the speciation of archaic homo sapiens about 500,000 years ago.
His study indicates that only after the speciation event is the neocortex large enough to process complex social phenomena such as language and religion.
The study is based on a regression analysis of neocortex size plotted against a number of social behaviors of living and extinct hominids.
Stephen Jay Gould suggests that religion may have grown out of evolutionary changes which favored larger brains as a means of cementing group coherence among savannah hunters, after that larger brain enabled reflection on the inevitability of personal mortality.
Lewis Wolpert argues that causal beliefs that emerged from tool use played a major role in the evolution of belief.
The manufacture of complex tools requires creating a mental image of an object which does not exist naturally before actually making the artifact.
Furthermore, one must understand how the tool would be used, that requires an understanding of causality.
Accordingly, the level of sophistication of stone tools is a useful indicator of causal beliefs.
Wolpert contends use of tools composed of more than one component, such as hand axes, represents an ability to understand cause and effect.
However, recent studies of other primates indicate that causality may not be a uniquely human trait.
For example, chimpanzees have been known to escape from pens closed with multiple latches, which was previously thought could only have been figured out by humans who understood causality.
Chimpanzees are also known to mourn the dead, and notice things that have only aesthetic value, like sunsets, both of which may be considered to be components of religion or spirituality.
The difference between the comprehension of causality by humans and chimpanzees is one of degree.
The degree of comprehension in an animal depends upon the size of the prefrontal cortex: the greater the size of the prefrontal cortex the deeper the comprehension.
Religion requires a system of symbolic communication, such as language, to be transmitted from one individual to another.
Philip Lieberman states "human religious thought and moral sense clearly rest on a cognitive-linguistic base".
From this premise science writer Nicholas Wade states: Another view distinguishes individual religious belief from collective religious belief.
While the former does not require prior development of language, the latter does.
The individual human brain has to explain a phenomenon in order to comprehend and relate to it.
This activity predates by far the emergence of language and may have caused it.
The theory is, belief in the supernatural emerges from hypotheses arbitrarily assumed by individuals to explain natural phenomena that cannot be explained otherwise.
The resulting need to share individual hypotheses with others leads eventually to collective religious belief.
A socially accepted hypothesis becomes dogmatic backed by social sanction.
Frans de Waal and Barbara King both view human morality as having grown out of primate sociality.
Though morality awareness may be a unique human trait, many social animals, such as primates, dolphins and whales, have been known to exhibit pre-moral sentiments.
According to Michael Shermer, the following characteristics are shared by humans and other social animals, particularly the great apes: De Waal contends that all social animals have had to restrain or alter their behavior for group living to be worthwhile.
Pre-moral sentiments evolved in primate societies as a method of restraining individual selfishness and building more cooperative groups.
For any social species, the benefits of being part of an altruistic group should outweigh the benefits of individualism.
For example, lack of group cohesion could make individuals more vulnerable to attack from outsiders.
Being part of a group may also improve the chances of finding food.
This is evident among animals that hunt in packs to take down large or dangerous prey.
All social animals have hierarchical societies in which each member knows its own place.
Social order is maintained by certain rules of expected behavior and dominant group members enforce order through punishment.
However, higher order primates also have a sense of reciprocity and fairness.
Chimpanzees remember who did them favors and who did them wrong.
For example, chimpanzees are more likely to share food with individuals who have previously groomed them.
Chimpanzees live in fission-fusion groups that average 50 individuals.
It is likely that early ancestors of humans lived in groups of similar size.
Based on the size of extant hunter-gatherer societies, recent Paleolithic hominids lived in bands of a few hundred individuals.
As community size increased over the course of human evolution, greater enforcement to achieve group cohesion would have been required.
Morality may have evolved in these bands of 100 to 200 people as a means of social control, conflict resolution and group solidarity.
According to Dr. de Waal, human morality has two extra levels of sophistication that are not found in primate societies.
Humans enforce their society’s moral codes much more rigorously with rewards, punishments and reputation building.
Humans also apply a degree of judgment and reason not otherwise seen in the animal kingdom.
Psychologist Matt J. Rossano argues that religion emerged after morality and built upon morality by expanding the social scrutiny of individual behavior to include supernatural agents.
By including ever-watchful ancestors, spirits and gods in the social realm, humans discovered an effective strategy for restraining selfishness and building more cooperative groups.
The adaptive value of religion would have enhanced group survival.
Rossano is referring here to collective religious belief and the social sanction that institutionalized morality.
According to Rossano's teaching, individual religious belief is thus initially epistemological, not ethical, in nature.
There is general agreement among cognitive scientists that religion is an outgrowth of brain architecture that evolved early in human history.
However, there is disagreement on the exact mechanisms that drove the evolution of the religious mind.
The two main schools of thought hold that either religion evolved due to natural selection and has selective advantage, or that religion is an evolutionary byproduct of other mental adaptations.
Stephen Jay Gould, for example, believed that religion was an exaptation or a spandrel, in other words that religion evolved as byproduct of psychological mechanisms that evolved for other reasons.
Such mechanisms may include the ability to infer the presence of organisms that might do harm (agent detection), the ability to come up with causal narratives for natural events (etiology), and the ability to recognize that other people have minds of their own with their own beliefs, desires and intentions (theory of mind).
These three adaptations (among others) allow human beings to imagine purposeful agents behind many observations that could not readily be explained otherwise, e.g.
thunder, lightning, movement of planets, complexity of life, etc.
The emergence of collective religious belief identified the agents as deities that standardized the explanation.
Some scholars have suggested that religion is genetically "hardwired" into the human condition.
One controversial proposal, the God gene hypothesis, states that some variants of a specific gene, the VMAT2 gene, predispose to spirituality.
Another view is based on the concept of the triune brain: the reptilian brain, the limbic system, and the neocortex, proposed by Paul D. MacLean.
Collective religious belief draws upon the emotions of love, fear, and gregariousness and is deeply embedded in the limbic system through sociobiological conditioning and social sanction.
Individual religious belief utilizes reason based in the neocortex and often varies from collective religion.
The limbic system is much older in evolutionary terms than the neocortex and is, therefore, stronger than it much in the same way as the reptilian is stronger than both the limbic system and the neocortex.
Reason is pre-empted by emotional drives.
The religious feeling in a congregation is emotionally different from individual spirituality even though the congregation is composed of individuals.
Belonging to a collective religion is culturally more important than individual spirituality though the two often go hand in hand.
This is one of the reasons why religious debates are likely to be inconclusive.
Yet another view is that the behaviour of people who participate in a religion makes them feel better and this improves their fitness, so that there is a genetic selection in favor of people who are willing to believe in religion.
Specifically, rituals, beliefs, and the social contact typical of religious groups may serve to calm the mind (for example by reducing ambiguity and the uncertainty due to complexity) and allow it to function better when under stress.
This would allow religion to be used as a powerful survival mechanism, particularly in facilitating the evolution of hierarchies of warriors, which if true, may be why many modern religions tend to promote fertility and kinship.
Still another view, proposed by F.H.
Previc, is that human religion was a product of an increase in dopaminergic functions in the human brain and a general intellectual expansion beginning around 80 kya.
Dopamine promotes an emphasis on distant space and time, which is critical for the establishment of religious experience.
While the earliest shamanic cave paintings date back around 40 kya, the use of ochre for rock art predates this and there is clear evidence for abstract thinking along the coast of South Africa by 80 kya.
When humans first became religious remains unknown, but there is credible evidence of religious behavior from the Middle Paleolithic era (300–500 thousand years ago) and possibly earlier.
The earliest evidence for treatment of the dead comes from Atapuerca in Spain.
At this location the bones of 30 individuals believed to be Homo heidelbergensis have been found in a pit.
Neanderthals are also contenders for the first hominids to intentionally bury the dead.
They may have placed corpses into shallow graves along with stone tools and animal bones.
The presence of these grave goods may indicate an emotional connection with the deceased and possibly a belief in the afterlife.
Neanderthal burial sites include Shanidar in Iraq and Krapina in Croatia and Kebara Cave in Israel.
The earliest known burial of modern humans is from a cave in Israel located at Qafzeh.
Human remains have been dated to 100,000 years ago.
Human skeletons were found stained with red ochre.
A variety of grave goods were found at the burial site.
The mandible of a wild boar was found placed in the arms of one of the skeletons.
Matt Rossano suggests that the period between 80,000–60,000 years before present, following the retreat of humans from the Levant to Africa, was a crucial period in the evolution of religion.
The use of symbolism in religion is a universal established phenomenon.
Archeologist Steven Mithen contends that it is common for religious practices to involve the creation of images and symbols to represent supernatural beings and ideas.
Because supernatural beings violate the principles of the natural world, there will always be difficulty in communicating and sharing supernatural concepts with others.
This problem can be overcome by anchoring these supernatural beings in material form through representational art.
When translated into material form, supernatural concepts become easier to communicate and understand.
Due to the association of art and religion, evidence of symbolism in the fossil record is indicative of a mind capable of religious thoughts.
Art and symbolism demonstrates a capacity for abstract thought and imagination necessary to construct religious ideas.
Wentzel van Huyssteen states that the translation of the non-visible through symbolism enabled early human ancestors to hold beliefs in abstract terms.
Some of the earliest evidence of symbolic behavior is associated with Middle Stone Age sites in Africa.
From at least 100,000 years ago, there is evidence of the use of pigments such as red ochre.
Pigments are of little practical use to hunter gatherers, thus evidence of their use is interpreted as symbolic or for ritual purposes.
Among extant hunter gatherer populations around the world, red ochre is still used extensively for ritual purposes.
It has been argued that it is universal among human cultures for the color red to represent blood, sex, life and death.
The use of red ochre as a proxy for symbolism is often criticized as being too indirect.
Some scientists, such as Richard Klein and Steven Mithen, only recognize unambiguous forms of art as representative of abstract ideas.
Upper paleolithic cave art provides some of the most unambiguous evidence of religious thought from the paleolithic.
Cave paintings at Chauvet depict creatures that are half human and half animal.
Organized religion traces its roots to the neolithic revolution that began 11,000 years ago in the Near East but may have occurred independently in several other locations around the world.
The invention of agriculture transformed many human societies from a hunter-gatherer lifestyle to a sedentary lifestyle.
The consequences of the neolithic revolution included a population explosion and an acceleration in the pace of technological development.
The transition from foraging bands to states and empires precipitated more specialized and developed forms of religion that reflected the new social and political environment.
While bands and small tribes possess supernatural beliefs, these beliefs do not serve to justify a central authority, justify transfer of wealth or maintain peace between unrelated individuals.
Organized religion emerged as a means of providing social and economic stability through the following ways: The states born out of the Neolithic revolution, such as those of Ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia, were theocracies with chiefs, kings and emperors playing dual roles of political and spiritual leaders.
Anthropologists have found that virtually all state societies and chiefdoms from around the world have been found to justify political power through divine authority.
This suggests that political authority co-opts collective religious belief to bolster itself.
Following the neolithic revolution, the pace of technological development (cultural evolution) intensified due to the invention of writing 5000 years ago.
Symbols that became words later on made effective communication of ideas possible.
Printing invented only over a thousand years ago increased the speed of communication exponentially and became the main spring of cultural evolution.
Writing is thought to have been first invented in either Sumeria or Ancient Egypt and was initially used for accounting.
Soon after, writing was used to record myth.
The first religious texts mark the beginning of religious history.
The Pyramid Texts from ancient Egypt are one of the oldest known religious texts in the world, dating to between 2400–2300 BCE.
Writing played a major role in sustaining and spreading organized religion.
In pre-literate societies, religious ideas were based on an oral tradition, the contents of which were articulated by shamans and remained limited to the collective memories of the society's inhabitants.
With the advent of writing, information that was not easy to remember could easily be stored in sacred texts that were maintained by a select group (clergy).
Humans could store and process large amounts of information with writing that otherwise would have been forgotten.
Writing therefore enabled religions to develop coherent and comprehensive doctrinal systems that remained independent of time and place.
Writing also brought a measure of objectivity to human knowledge.
Formulation of thoughts in words and the requirement for validation made mutual exchange of ideas and the sifting of generally acceptable from not acceptable ideas possible.
The generally acceptable ideas became objective knowledge reflecting the continuously evolving framework of human awareness of reality that Karl Popper calls 'verisimilitude' – a stage on the human journey to truth.
Harun Nasution (1919–1998) was an Indonesian scholar who described himself as a neo-Mutazilite, a modern follower of the medieval movement of the Mutazila.
His work was part of a small but significant trend within Islamic thought to champion rationalist and humanist principles.
Nasution spent much of his youth outside of Indonesia, living in Arabia and Egypt before moving to Europe and eventually Canada.
His father had been a traditional religious scholar, who despite his own immersion in Arabic and Islamic culture sent his son to a Dutch primary school.
Nasution did, however, attend an Islamic secondary school, although one that taught secular as well as religious subjects.
After an unhappy period of further study in Mecca, he went to Egypt, where he attended lectures at al-Azhar University in Cairo.
In 1962 he began studying at the Institute of Islamic Studies at McGill University in Montreal.
His doctoral studies were on the theology of Muhammad Abduh, focusing on the extent to which Abduh had been influenced by Mu'tazila teachings.
Nasution completed his PhD in 1969 and then returned to Indonesia, where he took up a position at IAIN in Jakarta.
It was there that he first suggested that the technological and economic decline of the Muslim world was partly due to its embrace of the Ash'arite school of theology, which he regarded as fatalistic.
He was particularly hostile to the occasionalism that became dominant in medieval Muslim thought, holding that its denial of the existence of secondary (created) causes hindered scientific enquiry.
Nasution's solution was to defend a revival of the Mutazila view, which was (and still is) widely regarded by Muslims as a heresy.
What Nasution admires in Mutazila thought is its emphasis on human reason in matters religious.
In the basic teachings of the Mutazila, he writes, <blockquote> it is possible to discern a form of rationalism, but not a rationalism that opposes religion or rejects the absolute truth of revelation...
It is also possible to discern a form of naturalism, but not an atheistic naturalism that denies the existence and greatness of God...
There is also human freedom and dynamism, but not absolute freedom from the design established by God...
The doctrines of dynamism, human freedom and accountability, rationalism and naturalism taught by the Mu'tazila contributed significantly to the development of philosophy and the religious and secular sciences during the Classical Period of Islamic civilization.
Nasution's influence on his fellow Indonesia thinkers is significant.
His fellow Indonesian thinker Nurcholish Madjid argues that Nasution was an important influence in the development of modern Indonesian religious thought, particularly through his influence on students at IAIN.
He is less known outside that country but he forms part of a significant movement that includes other "modernist" thinkers such as Mohammed Arkoun and Nasr Hamid Abu Zayd.
Not all such thinkers defend Mu'tazilite views, but they are all sympathetic to a great role for human reason in the interpretation of religious texts.
A , literally "incarnation", was believed to be the manifestation of a buddha in the form of an indigenous kami, an entity who had come to guide the people to salvation, during the era of shinbutsu-shūgō in premodern Japan.
The words and are synonyms for gongen.
is the term for belief in the existence of gongen.
The gongen concept is the cornerstone of the honji suijaku theory, according to which Buddhist deities choose to appear to the Japanese as native kami in order to save them, which is based on the Mahayana Buddhist notion of upaya, "expedient means".
It is sometimes assumed that the word gongen derives from Tokugawa Ieyasu's posthumous name (Tōshō Daigongen).
However, the term was created and started being used in the middle of the Heian period in an effort to harmonize Buddhism and indigenous religious practice in what is called shinbutsu-shūgō or "syncretism of kami and buddhas".
At that time, the assumption that Japanese kami and buddhas were essentially the same evolved into a theory called , which held that native kami were manifestations or avatars of buddhas, bodhisattvas and other Buddhist deities.
The theory gradually spread around the country and the concept of gongen, a dual entity composed of a buddha and a kami, evolved.
Under the influence of Tendai Buddhism and Shugendō, the gongen concept was adapted to religious beliefs tied to Mount Iwaki, a volcano, so that female kami Kuniyasutamahime became associated with Avalokiteśvara ekadaśamukha (Jūichimen Kannon Bosatsu, "Eleven-Faced Guanyin"), Ōkuninushi with Bhaisajyaguru (Yakushi Nyōrai) and Kunitokotachi with Amitābha (Amida Nyōrai).
The title "gongen" started being attached to the names of kami and shrines were built within the premises of large Buddhist temples to enshrine their tutelary kami.
During the Japanese Middle Ages, shrines started being called with the name gongen to underline their ties to Buddhism.
For example, in Eastern Japan there are still many Mount Haku shrines where the shrine itself is called either gongen or jinja.
Because it represents the application of Buddhist terminology to native kami, the use of the term was legally abolished in the Meiji Restoration with the and shrines began to be called jinja.
is the name of a complex Shinto shrine structure in which the haiden, or worship hall, and the honden, or main sanctuary, are interconnected under the same roof in the shape of an H. One of the oldest examples of gongen-zukuri is Kitano Tenmangū in Kyoto.
The name comes from Nikkō Tōshō-gū in Nikkō because, as we have seen, it enshrines the Tōshō Daigongen and adopts this structure.
Syndicat Northcrest v Amselem [2004] 2 S.C.R.
551 was a decision of the Supreme Court of Canada that attempted to define freedom of religion under the Quebec Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms and section 2 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
Although the Supreme Court split on their definition, the majority advocated tolerating a practice where the individual sincerely feels it is connected to religion, regardless of whether the practice is required by a religious authority.
The case arose after Orthodox Jews in Montreal erected succahs on their balconies in a residential building which they owned.
Succahs are small dwellings in which Jews live during Succot, a Jewish holiday, in accordance with the Hebrew Bible.
However, those who managed the buildings, Syndicat Northcrest, claimed the succahs violated by-laws forbidding structures to be built on the balconies.
The Orthodox Jews had not seen this requirement as applying to religious requirements because Christmas decorations and the like were allowed.
Syndicat Northcrest denied all requests that succahs be built, except one to be shared but this did not however meet minimal Jewish Halachic requirements.
Consequently, an injunction by Syndicat Northcrest was filed against further succahs.
While there was no government action responsible for violating a right, the Quebec Charter is of relevance to personal disputes.
As Justice Michel Bastarache wrote, "the first paragraph of s. 9.1 [of the Quebec Charter], insofar as it does not require that the infringement of a right or freedom result from the application of the law, applies only to private law relationships, that is, to infringements of the rights and freedoms of private individuals by other private individuals."
Bastarache noted this is what occurred in a previous case, Aubry v Éditions Vice-Versa Inc (1998).
The majority decision was written by Justice Frank Iacobucci.
He examined whether the by-laws violated the freedom of religion of the Orthodox Jews, and whether Syndicat Northcrest's opposition to the succahs was protected by rights to enjoy property under the Quebec Charter.
Iacobucci first attempted to define freedom of religion, and started by giving a legal definition for religion.
He decided that religion is a thorough set of beliefs regarding a higher power, tied with a person's view of him or herself and his/her needs to realize spiritual completeness.
Iacobucci went on to note that in past freedom of religion cases, such as R v Big M Drug Mart Ltd (1985), the Supreme Court has advocated giving freedom of religion a large and liberal definition emphasizing individual rights.
In Big M, it was noted there should be respect for religious diversity and no coercion to do something in violation of one's religion.
A journal article was then cited to establish this precedent favoured an individual's view of religion to an organized church's.
Thus, anyone who claims rights to freedom of religion does not need to demonstrate that they were denied rights to worship in accordance with the manner required by a religious authority.
Following R v Edwards Books Ltd and R v Jones, it was enough to demonstrate an individual religious belief.
These arguments were reinforced by a desire that secular governments and courts should not judge which religious practices are needed and which are not; this was to make legal decisions regarding moral beliefs.
Still, practices required by a religious authority are also protected; what matters is that the practice is connected to a religious belief.
To determine whether an individual belief is sincere, the Court noted US case law, which advocated a minimally intrusive evaluation of an individual's beliefs.
Courts must only determine that a belief is not feigned and religious claims are made in good faith.
It must be asked whether an individual's testimony can be believed, and how one belief fits in with others held by the individual.
In this, the Supreme Court added that courts should tolerate a change in beliefs; the individual's beliefs held in the past are not relevant to those claimed in the present.
Next, the court will determine whether a sufficiently large violation of freedom of religion has occurred to raise challenges under the Quebec and Canadian Charters.
The gravity of the violations will have to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
However, in this case the Supreme Court noted freedom of religion should not work to deny the rights of others.
Turning back to this case, the Supreme Court observed Syndicat Northcrest had argued freedom of religion was limited here by rights to enjoy property and to personal security.
However, the Court found the rights of the Orthodox Jews had been severely infringed, while Syndicat Northcrest's rights were not significantly affected.
Thus, freedom of religion would prevail.
The trial judge had found at least one of the Orthodox Jews sincerely believed he needed a succah, while the others seemed not to because they did not have succahs in the past.
The Supreme Court rejected the latter finding, because it relied on a study of past practice.
The Supreme Court also noted the Jews might have wanted succahs for religious reasons, regardless of whether they were necessary; this also undermined the view that past practices should be studied.
The Court then decided the violation of religious freedom was serious because the right to an individual succah was not limited but denied completely.
Conversely, Syndicat Northcrest claimed that the succahs limited rights to enjoy property because the succahs could take away from the attractiveness of the building and its financial value.
Rights to personal security were claimed because the succahs might block off fire escapes.
The Court was unconvinced the property value would drop because of lack of evidence, and the attractiveness of the building for nine days every year was held to be a small issue, especially in the context of the importance of multiculturalism.
The Court also noted the Jews had offered to mind fire safety.
Regarding the argument that the Jews had waived their rights, Iacobucci noted it was still not certain whether constitutional rights can be waived.
If they can, the waiver should be more explicit and done under complete free will.
The Jews in this case did not have complete free will in their agreement because they wanted to live in those buildings.
A dissent was written by Justice Bastarache.
He interpreted past freedom of religion case law as meaning the right protects religious beliefs and practices that result from those beliefs.
Beliefs can be discovered through religious rules; these distinguish religion from personal activities.
Thus, a belief is not held individually but is shared.
This provided an objective approach to freedom of religion.
Expert testimony would be a great help in finding whether a belief is religious.
Next, the sincerity of the individual is studied, in a non-intrusive way.
Bastarache felt for most of the Jews in this case, the religion required eating in a succah, but an individual succah was not needed.
While Bastarache noted one Jew might have a right to an individual succah, this needed to be balanced against "proper regard for democratic values, public order and the general well-being of the citizens of Québec", as required by the Quebec Charter.
The property and safety rights thus entered consideration.
Bastarache wrote that "it is difficult to imagine how granting a right of way in emergency situations, which is essential to the safety of all the occupants of the co-owned property, could fail to justify the prohibition against setting up succahs, especially in light of the compromise proposed by the respondent."
Justice Ian Binnie also wrote a dissent.
He observed the oddness of the situation, namely that a right was being claimed against other owners of the building and not a government.
The owners had made agreements that would prohibit the succahs.
Binnie emphasized the importance of this agreement or contract.
Aylā (Nepal Bhasa: अयला:) is a Newari beverage prepared by distillation of fermented ingredients such as rice, grains and millet.
Apart from casual drinking, Aila is an important part of festivals in Nepal.
This liquor is usually homemade and prepared by traditional methods.
Its preparation is not yet commercial in Nepal, however it is sold in restaurant that serve Newa cuisine.
It is about 50% alcohol and can be bought in local Newari restaurants for a fairly cheap price.
CNN has noted it as being one of the "50 most delicious drinks in the world".
Aila is usually prepared by Newari women before any festival or socio-cultural event.
Rice along with many other ingredients is mixed with Marcha, a local organic fermenting compound, and fermented at least four to five days to ensure the preparation of a good quality Aila.
Millet is used instead of rice for an even stronger flavor.
The final product is obtained after distillation.
This is done by using traditional clay and brass vessel designed specifically for this purpose.
The raw fermented mixture is cooked over a wood fire stove.
Temperature of flame and cooling water are the two factors controlling the quality of this beverage during distillation.
Consumption of alcohol is not just allowed but generally encouraged in Newari culture.
This is a religious practice promoted by Tantric traditions.
According to the Tantric practices, foods are divided into three groups.
These food groups are, mamsa (meat), matsya (fish) and madya (alcoholic beverage).
It is believed that offering alcohol would satisfy the Tantric Gods who in turn grant followers with good luck.
Aila is first offered to the Gods before every religious festival and cultural activities, and then it is served.
One such famous Newari festival is Yenya.
The Case for God is a 2009 book by Karen Armstrong.
It is an answer to the recent claims that God does not exist from Richard Dawkins, Christopher Hitchens, Sam Harris and Daniel Dennett and focuses on the three Abrahamic religions: Judaism, Christianity and Islam from the paleolithic age to the present day.
Also included are Buddhism and Hinduism.
Among the themes of the book are apophatic theology and intellectualism versus practice.
Armstrong claims that the fundamental reality, later called God, Brahman, nirvana or Tao, transcends human concepts and thoughts, and can only be known through devoted religious practice.
In 2009, the book was awarded the Dr. Leopold Lucas Prize by the University of Tübingen  in recognition of its contribution to the fields of theology, philosophy and intellectual history, and for improving international understanding and tolerance among faiths.
In the introduction, Armstrong presents two forms of knowledge, mythos and logos.
Since the 16th and 17th century, she says logos governed civilization, resulting in two phenomena: fundamentalism and atheism.
Armstrong says that the "new" atheists have made some valid criticisms of religion, stating "I can sympathize with the irritation of the new atheists".
But she maintains that they have focused primarily on fundamentalism.
She says they "aren't radical enough" and finds their work "disappointingly shallow".
According to Armstrong, "My aim in this book is simply to bring something fresh to the table."
Cale J. Bradford is the Chief Judge of the superior court of Marion County, Indiana, United States.
He was elected on January 1, 1997 and was the presiding judge for the 2005-2006 term, as well as being the juvenile division chair.
Bradford earned a B.S.
at Indiana University Bloomington in 1982 and a J.D.
at the Indiana University Robert H. McKinney School of Law in 1986.
Cale J. Bradford is appointed to the Indiana Court of Appeals.
His term began on August 1, 2007.
In a child custody case, Judge Bradford approved a ruling of a magistrate forbidding either parent from instructing their son in their shared religious beliefs.
The magistrate questioned how Wicca differed from Satanism and required the parents to shelter their child from "non-mainstream religious beliefs and rituals".
This ruling was overturned on appeal.
Norse pagan worship is the traditional religious rituals practiced by Norse pagans in Scandinavia in pre-Christian times.
Norse paganism was a folk religion (as opposed to an organised religion), and its main purpose was the survival and regeneration of society.
Therefore, the faith was decentralized and tied to the village and the family, although evidence exists of great national religious festivals.
The leaders managed the faith on behalf of society; on a local level, the leader would have been the head of the family, and nationwide, the leader was the king.
Pre-Christian Scandinavians had no word for religion in a modern sense.
The closest counterpart is the word sidr, meaning custom.
This meant that Christianity, during the conversion period, was referred to as nýr sidr (the new custom) while paganism was called forn sidr (ancient custom).
The centre of gravity of pre-Christian religion lay in religious practice — sacred acts, rituals and worship of the gods.
Norse religion was at no time homogeneous but was a conglomerate of related customs and beliefs.
These could be inherited or borrowed, and although the great geographical distances of Scandinavia led to a variety of cultural differences, people understood each other's customs, poetic traditions and myths.
Sacrifice (blót) played a huge role in most of the rituals that are known about today, and communal feasting on the meat of sacrificed animals, together with the consumption of beer or mead, played a large role in the calendar feasts.
In everyday practice, other foodstuffs like grain are likely to have been used instead.
The purpose of these sacrifices was to ensure fertility and growth.
However, sudden crises or transitions such as births, weddings and burials could also be the reason.
In those times there was a clear distinction between private and public faith, and the rituals were thus tied either to the household and the individual or to the structures of society.
It is not certain to what extent the known myths correspond to the religious beliefs of Scandinavians in pre-Christian times, nor how people acted towards them in everyday life.
The Scandinavians did not leave any written sources on their religious practice, and Christian texts on the subject are marked by misunderstandings and negative bias, since the Christians viewed the Nordic beliefs as superstition and devil worship.
Some archaeological evidence has been discovered, but this is hard to interpret in isolation from written material.
Recent research suggests that great public festivals involving the population of large regions were not as important as the more local feasts in the life of the individual.
Though they were written in a later Christian era, the Icelandic sagas are of great significance as sources to everyday religion.
Even when the Christian influence is taken into account, they draw an image of a religion closely tied to the cycle of the year and the social hierarchy of society.
In Iceland the local secular leader had the title of gothi, which originally meant priest but in the Middle Ages was a term for a local secular leader.
Ceremonial communal meals in connection with the blót sacrifice are mentioned in several sources and are thus some of the most described rituals.
Masked dancers, music, and singing may have been common parts of these feasts.
As in other pre-Christian Germanic societies, but in contrast to the later situation under Christianity, there was no class of priests: anyone could perform sacrifices and other faith acts.
However, common cultural norms meant that it was normally the person with the highest status and the greatest authority (the head of the family or the leader of the village) who led the rituals.
The sources indicate that sacrifices for fertility, a safe journey, a long life, wealth etc.
were a natural and fully integrated part of daily life in Scandinavian society, as in almost all other pre-modern societies across the world.
The worship of female powers is likely to have played a greater role than the medieval sources indicate, because those texts were written by men and pay less attention to religious practices in the female sphere.
A trace of the importance of goddesses can be found in place-name material that has shown that there are often place names connected to the goddess Freyja near place names connected to the god Freyr.
Fertility and divination rituals that women could take part in or lead were also among those which survived the longest after Christianisation.
Different types of animals or objects were connected to the worship of different gods; for instance, horses and pigs played a great role in the worship of Freyr.
This did not mean that the same animal could not also play a role in the worship of other deities (the horse was also an important part of the Odin faith).
One of the most important objects in Norse paganism was the ship.
Archaeological sources show that it played a central role in the faith from the petroglyphs and razors of the Bronze Age to the runestones of the Viking Age.
Interpretation of the meaning of the ship in connection to the mythological material is only possible for the late period, when it was mainly associated with death and funerals.
Several written sources mention statues of heathen gods.
They are mostly described as either anthropomorphic or as wooden staves with a face carved at the top.
Ahmad ibn Fadlan writes about such poles in his description of a Scandinavian sacrifice at the Volga.
This account has a suggestion of the mythological connection but it is impossible to decipher it.
No such large statues from the Viking Age have been found, only small figures and amulets.
This may be because larger statues were deliberately destroyed.
After Christianisation, the possession of such figures was banned and severely punished.
Many accounts of missionaries have the destruction of heathen idols as their climax, symbolising the triumph of the weak Christian god over the strong, "devilish" native gods.
The sagas sometimes mention small figures that can be kept in a purse.
Such figures are known from archaeological findings across Scandinavia.
They include hammer-shaped jewelry, golden men or figures of gods.
Sources from different periods also suggest that chariots were used in fertility rituals across Scandinavia over a very long period.
In his Germania, Tacitus refers to a sacred chariot in the faith of Nerthus.
Also the Dejbjerg chariots from the Roman Iron Age, the Oseberg ship from the Viking age and the medieval tale about Gunnar Helming have survived until today.
It is possible that this motif can be traced as far back as the processions of the Bronze Age.
Although no details are known, it is possible to form an unclear image of some of the rituals and religious practices through interpretation of the sources that have survived.
The sources are heterogeneous since the written accounts are from the late heathen period and written in a Christian context.
Thus it is also hard to determine whether a ritual was private or public.
The only heathen shrine about which there is detailed information is the great temple at Uppsala in modern Sweden, which was described by the German chronicler Adam of Bremen in a time where central Sweden was the last political centre where Norse paganism was practised in public.
Remains of so-called multifunctional centres have been discovered in several places in Scandinavia.
Near Tissø, archaeologists have unearthed a complex consisting of, among other things, a central mead hall connected to a fenced area with a smaller building.
The hall is likely to have been associated with the great festivals and the fenced area to have contained a hörgr.
This complex is similar to others found in Scandinavia., such as Borg in Lofoten, Uppsala in Uppland, Uppåkra in Scania, Gudme in Funen and Lejre in Zealand.
Since the 1970s, discoveries have significantly expanded knowledge about the public faith.
The excavations have shown that large buildings were used for both secular and religious purposes from the 600s and into the Viking Age and the Middle Ages.
Such structures are likely to have been both religious and political/economic centres.
The combination of religious festivals and markets has been common to most cultures through most of history, since a society where travel is difficult and communication limited uses such occasions to get several things done at the same time.
Thus the religious festivals were also the time and place for things, markets and the hearing of court cases.
The religious festivals have to be seen in the light of these other activities.
In some places the same area was used for these festivals from the Roman Iron Age until the Middle Ages, while in other places different locations were used in succession.
Excavations of the complex at Tissø have shown that it grew from the 7th century until the 10th century.
The most recent findings are from 1020 to 1030, when the great hall seems to have been dismantled.
Locally there were several kinds of holy places, usually marked by a boundary in the form of either a permanent stone barrier or a temporary fence of branches.
Thus a holy space was created with rules of its own, like a ban on spilling blood on holy soil.
The importance of these holy places should be understood in connection to the cosmological ideas people had.
Local society was seen as a mirror of the cosmos, so the holy places in the village and in the fields were seen as mirroring Asgard and Midgard, while the forests, mountains and uninhabited moorland were all potentially dangerous places, analogous to Jotunheim.
It is known that different types of divine forces were tied to different places and that there were different rituals connected to them.
In addition to sacred groves, texts mention holy wells and the leaving of offerings at streams, rocks and trees; these may have been to the landvættir as well as, or rather than, the gods.
There is no mention of worship of the jötnar and it is unknown whether there were places sacred to them.
The sources disagree about faiths buildings, so there are varying opinions about their form and nature.
However, it seems that for some buildings, sacral use was secondary.
The Germanic languages had no words in pre-Christian times that directly corresponded to the Latin templum, the ancestor of the modern word temple.
Thus it has long been a topic for discussion whether there were buildings exclusively meant for religious purposes in pre-Christian Scandinavia.
It is most likely that religious buildings were erected in some places, as the words hörgr and hof are found in several place-names.
Other sources suggests that the ritual acts were not necessarily limited to religious buildings.
Whether "temples" were built is likely to have depended on local custom and economic resources.
A hof or a hörgr did not need to be connected to one of the faiths centres.
Other forms of the faiths buildings were the hall and the vé.
Place names containing the word sal (hall) occur in several places and it is possible that this word was used for the multi-functional halls.
Earlier scholars often translated sal as barn or stable, which has been shown to be inaccurate.
Such a hall is more likely to have been a long-house with only one room.
This was a prestigious type of building used for feasts and similar social gatherings in the entire Germanic area.
In place names the word sal is mostly connected to Odin, which shows a connection with political power.
Old place names containing the word sal may thus mean that a religious hall once stood there.
Another word for hall, höll, was used to describe another kind of sacral building, not meant for habitation but dedicated to special purposes like holding feasts.
In the legend of Beowulf, Heorot is named as such.
However the word höll is not found in place names and is likely to have been borrowed into East Norse from German or English in the late period.
The vé is another kind of holy place and is also the most unambiguous name used for holy places in Scandinavia.
The word comes from the proto-Germanic *wîha, meaning "holy".
Originally this word was used for places in nature but over time religious buildings may have been built.
Adam of Bremen's description of the sacrifices and the religious centre in Uppsala is the best known account of pre-Christian rituals in Sweden.
There is general agreement that Gamla Uppsala was one of the last strongholds of heathen religion in central Sweden and that the religious centre there was still of great importance when Adam of Bremen wrote his account.
Adam describes the temple as being gilded everywhere and containing statues of the three most important gods.
The most important was Thor, who was placed in the middle, with Odin at one side and Fricco (presumably Freyr) at the other.
He tells that Thor reigned in the skies where he ruled rain, wind and thunder, and that he provided good weather for the crops.
In his hand he held a sceptre.
Odin was the god of war and courage, his name meant "the furious" and he was depicted as a warrior.
Fricco, on the other hand, was the god for peace and physical satisfaction, and was thus depicted with a huge phallus.
Each god had his own priests and people sacrificed to the gods whose help they needed: Thor was called upon in times of famine and disease, Odin was called upon to gain victory and Fricco was called upon for fertile marriages.
According to Adam, the temple at Uppsala was the centre for the national worship of the gods, and every nine years a great festival was held there where the attendance of all inhabitants of the Swedish provinces was required, including Christians.
At these festivals men and male animals were sacrificed by hanging.
Adam recounts from Christian eye-witness accounts that up to 72 corpses could be hanging in the trees next to the temple during these sacrifices.
He uses the Latin term triclinium, meaning banquet hall, for the central religious building and says that it was used for libations.
In Roman culture such a building was not considered a temple proper, but it had a function similar to that of Heorot in the legend of Beowulf.
For comparison the Iron Age hall at Berg in Lofoten had benches along three of the walls just like the Roman triclinium.
In recent times, remains of a large building have been found in Uppsala.
It was 100m long and was in use from 600 to 800.
It was built on an artificial plateau near the burial mounds from the Germanic Iron Age and was presumably a residence connected to the royal power, which was established in the area during that period.
Remains of a smaller building have been found below this house and the place is likely to have been in use as a religious centre for very long time.
The memory of the hall (sal) remains in the name Uppsala.
The building was surrounded by a fence which could not have had any defensive function but could have marked the royal or sacral area.
Around 900 the great hall burned down, but new graves were placed on the site.
The traces of postholes under the medieval church have traditionally been interpreted as the site of the temple, but some scholars now believe the building was a later feast hall and that there was never a "temple" as such, but rather a hall used for banquets and political and legal functions as well as sacrifices.
Gamla Uppsala was used for about 2000 years but the size and complexity of the complex was expanded up until the Viking Age, so that Uppsala in the period from 500 to 1000 was the centre of royal power and a location of a sizeable religious organisation.
Thus, religious as well as secular power in Norse society was centered on individuals.
It was secured through ties of friendship and loyalty and meant that there never were any totally consolidated structures of power.
The king could only exercise his power where he or his trusted representatives were personally present.
A king thus needed to have homesteads throughout the realm as the physical seat of his government.
It is unclear which of them were royal and which of them were owned by local aristocracy, but place names can give an indication.
The common Swedish place name Husaby or Huseby could be an old term for a royal homestead.
The same was true for leaders of lesser rank in the hierarchy; they too had to be present for the rituals to work.
The most known type of religious leader is the gothi, as several holders of this title appear in the Icelandic sagas.
Because of the limited knowledge about religious leaders there has been a tendency to regard the gothi and his female counterpart, the gyðja, as common titles throughout Scandinavia.
However, there is no evidence pointing to that conclusion.
In historic times the gothi was a male politician and judge, i.e.
a chieftain, but the word has the same etymological origins as the word "god," which is a strong sign that religious functions were connected to the title in pre-historic times.
In pre-Christian times the gothi was thus both politician, jurist and religious expert.
Other titles of religious leaders were þulr (thul), thegn, völva and seiðmaðr (seidman).
The term thul is related to words meaning recitation, speech and singing, so this religious function could have been connected to a sacral, maybe esoteric, knowledge.
The thul was also connected to Odin, the god of rulers and kings, and thus poetry and the activities in the banquet halls.
It is a possibility that the thul function was connected to the king's halls.
Both the völva and the seiðmaðr were associated with seid.
It has been a topic for discussion whether human sacrifice was practised in Scandinavia.
There has been great disagreement about why, for instance, two bodies were found in the Oseberg tomb or how to interpret Ibn Fadlan's description of the killing of a female thrall at a funeral among the Scandinavian Rus on the Volga.
The many discoveries of bog bodies and the evidence of sacrifices of prisoners of war dating back to the Pre-Roman Iron Age show that ritual killings in one form or another were not uncommon in Northern Europe in the period before the Viking Age.
Furthermore, some findings from the Viking Age can be interpreted as evidence of human sacrifice.
Sagas occasionally mention human sacrifice at temples, as does Adam of Bremen.
Also, the written sources tell that a commander could consecrate the enemy warriors to Odin using his spear.
Thus war was ritualised and made sacral and the slain enemies became sacrifices.
Violence was a part of daily life in the Viking Age and took on a religious meaning like other activities.
It is likely that human sacrifice occurred during the Viking Age but nothing suggests that it was part of common public religious practise.
Instead it was only practised in connection with war and in times of crisis.
Excavations of the religious centres have shown that public religious practise changed over time.
In Southern Scandinavia, the great public sacrificial feasts that had been common during the Roman Iron Age were abandoned.
In the 6th century the great sacrifices of weapons were discontinued.
Instead there are traces of a faith that was tied more to the abode of a ruler.
This change is among other things shown by golden plates and bracteates becoming common.
Gold was a precious material and was thus connected to the ruler and his family.
The changes are very remarkable and might be a sign that the change of religion in Scandinavia started in an earlier time than was previously believed, and was closely connected to the establishment of kingdoms.
The rituals of the private religion mostly paralleled the public.
In many cases the line between public and private religion is hard to draw, for instance in the cases of the yearly blót feasts and crisis and life passage rituals.
In the private sphere the rituals were led by the head of the household and his wife.
It is not known whether thralls took part in the worship and in that case to what extent.
The rituals were not limited to seasonal festivals as there were rituals connected to all tasks of daily life.
Most rituals only involved one or a few persons, but some involved the entire household or the extended family.
These rituals were connected to the change of status and transitions in life a person experiences, such as birth, marriage and death, and followed the same pattern as is known from other rites of passage.
Unusually, no Scandinavian sources tell about rituals for the passage from child to adult.
Until very recent times a birth was dangerous to the mother as well as the child.
Thus rites of birth were common in many pre-modern societies.
In the Viking Age, people would pray to the goddesses Frigg and Freyja, and sing ritual galdr-songs to protect the mother and the child.
Fate played a huge role in Norse culture and was determined at the moment of birth by the Norns.
Nine nights after birth, the child had to be recognised by the father of the household.
He placed the child on his knee while sitting in the high seat.
Water was sprinkled on the child, it was named and thus admitted into the family.
There are accounts of guests being invited to bring gifts and wish the child well.
Children were often named after deceased ancestors and the names of deities could be a part of the name.
People thought certain traits were connected to certain names and that these traits were carried on when the names were re-used by new generations.
This was part of ancestor worship.
Putting the child on the knee of the father confirmed his or her status as a member of the clan and bestowed the rights connected to this status.
The child could no longer be killed, or exposed by the parents, without its being considered murder.
Exposing children was a socially accepted way of limiting the population.
The belief that deities were present during childbirth suggests that people did not regard the woman and the child as excluded from normal society as was the case in later, Christian, times and apparently there were no ideas about female biological functions being unclean.
As it was the core of the family, marriage was the most important social institution in pagan Scandinavia.
A wedding was thus an important transition not only for the couple but also for the families involved.
A marriage was a legal contract with implications for, among other things, inheritance and property relations, while the wedding itself was the solemnization of a pact in which the families promised to help each other.
Because of this the male head of the family had the final say in these matters.
However it is clear from the sagas that the young couple also had a say since a good relationship between the spouses was crucial to the running of a farm.
A wedding was a long and collective process subject to many ritual rules and culminating in the wedding feast itself.
The procedures had to be followed for the divine powers to sanction the marriage and to avoid a bad marriage afterwards.
However accounts in the sagas about the complicated individual emotions connected to a marriage tell us that things did not always work out between the spouses.
As a prelude to marriage the family of the groom sent the groom and several delegates to the family of the bride to propose.
Here the date of the betrothal was set.
This was the first legally binding step between the families, and the occasion was used to negotiate the inheritance and property relations of the couple as well as the dowry (heimanfylgja) and wedding present (mundr) from the groom's family.
Those were the personal property of the bride.
Usually the bride's family were less wealthy than the groom's, but in most cases the difference was not great.
Thus the dowry was an investment by the bride's family that made it possible for her to marry into a more powerful family.
When an agreement on these matters had been reached, the deal was sealed at a feast.
These conditions were reserved for the dominating class of freeholders (bóndi/bœndr), as the remaining parts of the population, servants, thralls and freedmen were not free to act in these matters but were totally dependent on their master.
The wedding (brudlaup) was the most important single ritual in the process.
It was the first public gathering of the two families and consisted of a feast that lasted for several days.
Anything less than three days was considered paltry.
The guests witnessed that the process had been followed correctly.
The sources tell very little about how a wedding was related to the gods.
It is known that the goddess Vár witnessed the couple's vows, that a depiction of Mjolnir could be placed in the lap of the bride asking Thor to bless her, and that Freyr and Freyja were often called upon in matters of love and marriage, but there is no suggestion of a worship ritual.
From legal sources we know that leading the couple to the bridal couch was one of the central rituals.
On the first night the couple was led to bed by witnesses carrying torches, which marked the difference between legal marital relations and a secret extra-marital relationship.
Ancestor worship was an element in pre-Christian Scandinavian culture.
The ancestors were of great importance for the self-image of the family and people believed that they were still able to influence the life of their descendants from the land of the dead.
Contact with them was seen as crucial to the well-being of the family.
If they were treated in the ritually correct way, they could give their blessings to the living and secure their happiness and prosperity.
Conversely, the dead could haunt the living and bring bad fortune if the rituals were not followed.
It is not clear whether the ancestors were seen as divine forces themselves or as connected to other death-related forces like elves.
The status of the dead determined the shape of the tomb and the burial mounds were seen as the abode of the dead.
They were places of special power which also influenced the objects inside them.
The evidence of prehistoric openings in mounds may thus not indicate looting but the local community's efforts to retrieve holy objects from the grave, or to insert offerings.
Since the excavation of a mound was a time- and labour-consuming task which could not have happened unnoticed, religious historian Gro Steinsland and others find it unlikely that lootings of graves were common in prehistoric times.
There are also several mythological tales and legends about retrieval of objects from burial mounds and an account in Ynglingasaga of offerings to Freyr continuing through openings in his burial mound at Uppsala.
The connection between the living and the dead was maintained through rituals connected to the burial place like sacrifice of objects, food and drink.
Usually the graves were placed close to the dwelling of the family and the ancestors were regarding as protecting the house and its inhabitants against bad luck and bestowing fertility.
Thus ancestor worship was of crucial importance to survival and there are signs that it continued up until modern times in isolated areas.
Ancestor worship was also an element in the blót feasts, where memorial toasts to the deceased were part of the ritual.
Also elf blót was closely connected to the family.
Land wights were unnamed collective entities.
They were protective deities for areas of land and there were many religious rules for how to deal with them to avoid conflicts.
This was used by Egil Skallagrimson.
When he was driven from Norway into exile in Iceland, he erected a nithing pole (níðstang) to frighten the Norwegian land wights and thus bring bad luck to Norway as revenge for the Norwegian king's treatment of him.
According to the saga the cursing pole consisted of a gaping horse's head mounted on top of a pole which he drove into the ground at the beach.
In the Viking Age, women are likely to have played the main role in the wight faith.
This faith included sacrifices of food and drink on certain locations either near the farm or other places like waterfalls and groves where wights were believed to live.
During Christianisation the attention of the missionaries was focused on the named gods; worship of the more anonymous collective groups of deities was allowed to continue for a while, and could have later escaped notice by the Christian authorities.
The wights also lived on in folklore as nixies and tomter.
Far from all types of Norse pagan rituals are known in detail.
Below is an introduction to most known types of rituals.
The Blót was an important type of ritual in the public as well as the private faith.
The word blót is connected to the verb blóta, which is related to English bless.
In the Viking age the main meaning of the word had become to sacrifice.
In academia Seid was traditionally written about in a degrading fashion and considered magic rather than religion.
This is connected to the general disparagement of magic in the Christian medieval sources, such as the sagas.
Seid was an element of a larger religious complex and was connected to important mythological tales.
Freyja is said to have taught it to Odin.
Thus Seid is today considered as an important element of Norse religion.
It is hard to determine from the sources what the term meant in the Viking Age but it is known that Seid was used for divination and interpretation of omens for positive as well as destructive purposes.
The sources mention runes as powerful symbols connected to Odin, which were used in different ritual circumstances.
The sources of our knowledge about Norse paganism are varied, but do not include any sacred texts that prescribe rituals or explain them in religious terms.
Knowledge about pre-Christian rituals in Scandinavia is composed mainly from fragments and indirect knowledge.
For instance the mythological eddas tell almost nothing about the rituals connected to the deities described.
While the sagas contain more information on ritual acts, they rarely connect those to the mythology.
All these texts were written in Iceland after the Christianisation and it is likely that much knowledge about the rituals had then been lost.
The mythological tales survived more easily, and the information found in them is probably closer to pagan originals.
An example of how sagas have been used as indirect sources for religious practice is Snorri Sturluson's Heimskringla.
For instance, in the first part of the tale of the Norwegian kings he tells about the rituals Odin instituted when he came to the Scandinavian peoples.
This account is likely to describe rituals in the Odin faith.
According to Snorri, Odin required that a sacrifice be held for a good year at the beginning of winter, one for rebirth at mid-winter and one for victory in the summer.
All dead were to be cremated on a funeral pyre together with all their belongings and all cremated in this way would join him in Valhalla, together with their belongings.
The ashes were to be spread either at sea or on the ground.
This is similar to other written and archaeological sources on burial customs, which thus substantiate each other.
Graves are the most common archaeological evidence of religious acts and they are an important source of our knowledge about the ideas about death and cosmology held by the bereaved.
This material is very useful in forming a general view of the structural relations and long-time developments in the religion.
By comparing it to other archaeological findings and written sources, new perspectives can be formed.
Another source is found in toponyms.
In recent years, research has shed new light on pagan rituals, among other things, by determining the location of pagan shrines.
The name of a location can reveal information about its history.
The name of the city Odense, for instance, means Odin's vé (shrine), and the name Thorshøj, which can be found in several places in Norway, means "Thor's hof" (temple).
The basis point for the interpretation of placenames is that they were not just practical measures people used to make their way but also constituted a symbolic mapping of the landscape.
Thus toponyms can contribute with knowledge about the culture of previous societies for which there are no other sources.
Toponyms tell about which deities were connected to the place and worshipped there, and names for holy places can be found, for instance, in the suffixes -vé, -sal,-lund, -hørg and -hov or -hof.
One of the most common terms was vé, meaning an area that was consecrated and thus outside the sphere of the profane and where special rules applied.
The distribution of toponyms in middle Sweden containing the names of the deities Freyr and Freyja may be a trace of a prehistoric sacral kingdom in the Mälaren region associated with the two fertility deities and the idea of a sacred marriage.
There are difficulties involved in the use of toponyms, since words often have both a sacral and a non-sacral meaning; for instance the word hørg can mean stone altar as well as stony soil.
Many images can also be interpreted as depictions of ritual acts.
For instance, the bracteates from the Germanic Iron Age can be interpreted as depictions of rituals connected to the belief of Odin, such as seid and magic.
However, in principle material remains can only be used as circumstantial evidence to understanding Norse society and can only contribute concrete knowledge about the time's culture if combined with written sources.
For instance, the written sources point to the existence of religious specialists within the public faith.
The titles of these specialists have been found on rune stones, thus confirming their position within society.
Several tales from the sagas contain remains of pre-Christian rituals.
Often the stories are not of a religious nature but include singular incidents that reflect religious life.
An example is Snorri's account of how the Christian king of Norway, Haakon the Good, tried to avoid taking part in the pagan feasts.
It was traditionally one of the king's duties to lead a blót feast each fall.
At this feast, Haakon refused to eat the sacrificed horse meat that was served, and made the sign of the cross over his goblet instead of invoking Odin.
After this incident the king lost many of his supporters, and at the feast the following year, he was forced to eat the sacrificial meat and was forbidden to bless his beer with the sign of the cross.
This account is often used as evidence of the ruler's role as a religious leader.
However, it is an important point that medieval sources have to be understood according to the environment they were written in.
For instance Margaret Clunies Ross has pointed out that the descriptions of rituals appearing in the sagas are recycled in a historicised context and may not reflect practice in pre-Christian times.
This can be seen by their often being explained in the texts rather than just described.
From this she deduces that the readers were not expected to have direct knowledge of pagan rituals.
They are also explained in terms of Christian practice; for example a hlautteinn used for sprinkling participants in a blót being described as "like an aspergillum".
Collective salvation is the religious belief that members of a group collectively influence the salvation of the group to which they belong.
Collective salvation can teach that the group is collectively one person by its nature.
The concept of collective salvation is sometimes taught in Christianity, Islam, and Judaism.
Traditional Jewish theology predicted that collective salvation for the Jews would be brought by the Jewish Messiah.
The book of Daniel states that there will be both collective forgiveness for the Jews, and individual judgment of unrighteous people.
This idea was promoted by Cyprian in the 3rd century, before the Edict of Milan, when most Christians were persecuted and lived outside of society.
Augustine of Hippo also discussed this topic in City of God, noting that some taught that the entire Catholic Church would be saved.
At that time many taught that 1 Corinthians 12:12-14 which describes Christians as "one body" implied collective salvation.
Augustine rejected the concept, maintaining that people who live immoral lives can never be saved, even if they partake of the Eucharist.
Collective salvation was often rejected by early proponents of Christian monasticism.
The Desert Fathers of Egypt in the 4th century advocated withdrawal from society to focus on individual salvation through individual isolation and prayer.
However, in the Middle ages monastic movements often gave more attention to the idea of collective salvation and devoted much of their time to collective prayer and prayer for the dead.
Scholars such as Hans Conzelmann have argued that the concept is found in the Christian scriptures, such as the Gospel of Luke.
Some Muslim movements have also emphasized collective salvation, believing that the Quran speaks of both individual and collective salvation.
Many Turkish writers have depicted an ideal transformation of society into an ideal Islamic culture.
The Iranian intellectual Ali Shariati taught that Muslim societies could find collective salvation through revolutionary political movements.
He believed that much of institutionalized Islam needed to be transformed into a revolutionary ideology.
The theology of collective salvation has often been linked with Millennialism, a belief which forecasts an imminent transition to freedom from human suffering and oppression.
Proponents of Millennialist views often teach that collective salvation will soon be granted to a certain group.
Some Millennialist groups foresee an earthly collective salvation, while other believe that it will only be granted in Heaven.
Many 19th-century American adherents to Postmillennialism believed that evangelism and charitable deeds could bring about collective salvation on earth.
Those who believe in Millennialist collective salvation often teach that there is both a supernatural gift and a human role involved in that salvation.
Some maintain that the transition will be the result of a sudden catastrophe (sometimes called an "apocalypse"), while others believe that human progress will progressively lead to such a state.
Dawkins' God: Genes, Memes, and the Meaning of Life is a book by Alister McGrath, a theologian who is currently Professor of Historical Theology at Oxford University.
The book, published in 2004, aims to refute claims about religion made by another well-known professor at Oxford, Richard Dawkins.
McGrath's book does not seek to demonstrate how Dawkins’ claims differ from Christianity, rather, it argues that Dawkins' arguments fall far short of the logical and evidence-based reasoning that Dawkins himself espouses.
McGrath begins with an overview of evolutionary biology and Darwinist theory.
He then presents Dawkins’ view that the current state of scientific knowledge should lead a rational person to conclude that there is no God.
McGrath argues that Dawkins fails to declare or defend several crucial assumptions or premises.
McGrath also defends other conclusions in the book, including: McGrath argues that Dawkins' rejection of faith is a straw man argument.
According to McGrath, Dawkins’ definition that faith “means blind trust, in the absence of evidence” is not a Christian position.
In contrast, argues McGrath, accepting Dawkins’ definition would require blind trust since he offers no evidence to support it.
Rather, it is based upon what McGrath calls “an unstated and largely unexamined cluster of hidden non-scientific values and beliefs” (p.&nbsp;92).
McGrath then argues that Dawkins frequently violates the very tenets of evidence-based reasoning that Dawkins himself claims to uphold and use to dismiss all religious belief.
Also on page 92, McGrath states "... Darwinism neither proves nor disproves the existence of God (unless, of course God is defined by his critics in precisely such a way...)."
In Science the skeptic Michael Shermer, reviewing this book, says "[McGrath's] defense of religious faith is a passionate and honorable one and he demonstrates that some of Dawkins's characterizations of religion are indeed overly simplistic or selective, but he never delivers an answer to the God question.
The closest thing to an argument for God's existence I could find in the book is this: 'Why should God require an explanation at all?
He might just be an "ultimate,"...one of those things we have to accept as given and is thus amenable to description, rather than explanation.'
That may be, but like all other arguments made in favor of God's existence, this only works as a reason to believe if you already believe.
If you do not already believe, science cannot help you."
In response to the book in general, and to the accusation of being ignorant of Christian theology in particular, Richard Dawkins stated:
Igor Sibaldi (Milan, Italy, 15 June 1957), born from Russian mother and Italian father, is an Italian writer, scholar of theology and history of religion.
Sibaldi is the author of numerous works on the Scripture and shamanism.
He regularly holds conferences and seminars in Italy and abroad about mythology, exegesis and depth psychology.
He worked for a long time on angelology in Jewish tradition, equalizing it to an ancient form of psychology.
His favourite style is the essay-novel form.
He has published, among the others, The Invisible Teachers (Mondadori) The forbidden fruit of knowledge (Frassinelli) The Ark of the new Masters (Frassinelli) The invisible world (Frassinelli) Book of Angels (Frassinelli) and new translations of Genesis (The Book of Creation, Frassinelli) and the Gospel of John (The Gospel's Secret Code, Sperling and Kupfer).
In theology or the history of religion heresiology is the study of heresy.
Heresiographical works were common in both Medieval Christianity and Islam.
Heresiology developed as a part of the development of orthodoxy in the Roman/Byzantine Church.
Church scholars studied and documented the teachings of various Christian sects in order to clearly distinguish between those they accepted as orthodox and those they rejected as heretical.
Other Christian communions developed their own competing heresiological traditions as well.
In Islam heresiology surveyed both the various Muslim sects, and also other religions such as Christianity and Judaism.
Some like Abu Mansur al-Baghdadi and Ibn Hazm wrote polemical works, arguing the falseness of sects and religions other than their own.
Others like Al-Shahrastani's Al-Milal wa al-Nihal took a more impartial approach closer to modern religious studies works.
Mufti Munir Shakir (birthdate unknown) is a religious figure operating in northwestern Pakistan, and the founder of the militant group Lashkar-e-Islam.
Shakir worked in Kurram Agency until 2004, when he was ejected by tribal elders following a mosque bombing.
Shakir's fame increased after he moved to Bara tehsil, Khyber Agency, where he established an FM pirate radio station.
Using this vehicle, he began to promote his religious beliefs, based in Deobandi theology.
Among his more controversial pronouncements was his alleged statement that opium is halal, provided it is produced and used for medical purposes In 2005, Pir Saifur Rahman, a supporter of the more moderate hanafi barelvi school of Islam, established his own FM pirate radio station to compete with Shakir's station.
Rivalry between the two clerics increased, causing tribal elders to denounce the two in December 2005 for fomenting sectarian tension.
Both clerics then went into hiding, with Shakir handing control of his radio station and Lashkar-e-Islam organization to Mangal Bagh.
The hostilities peaked around March 29, 2006, when "hundreds" of Shakir's followers gathered in the Badshahkili neighborhood of Bara tehsil to attack Rahman's followers.
In 2004, Shakir founded the organization Lashkar-e-Islam.
Shortly thereafter, he was ejected from Bara tehsil, and turned over control of the organization to local driver Mangal Bagh.
William Pope Harrison, D.D., L.D.D.
(September 3, 1830-February 7, 1895) was an American Methodist minister and theologian, and was the 48th Chaplain of the United States House of Representatives.
He was an author of books on Methodist theology, most notably The Gospel among the Slaves, the first comprehensive accounting of the religious beliefs of African American slaves in the United States.
Harrison was born in Savannah, Georgia, and attended the preparatory school of Emory College.
In 1850, he became an itinerant minister of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South.
In 1859, he was appointed to the faculty of the East Alabama Male College in Auburn, Alabama as Adjunct Professor of Languages, and from 1861 through 1862 was president of the Auburn Female College, today Auburn High School.
He returned to Emory, receiving the Doctor of Divinity degree in 1866.
Later that year, Harrison became pastor of the First Methodist Church in Atlanta, Georgia, the first of four terms as pastor there, the last of which ended in 1877.
Harrison was elected Chaplain of the United States House of Representatives on December 3, 1877.
He served in that capacity for the 45th and 46th United States Congress, before resigning in 1881.
In 1882, Harrison was elected book editor of the Methodist Episcopal, South publishing house, a position he held for the remainder of his life.
Harrison was a delegate to the First (1881) and Second (1891) World Methodist Councils, and was Secretary of the Methodist General Conference in 1890.
Harrison died on February 7, 1895, in Columbus, Georgia.
Boetius (or Boethius) of Dacia OP (latinization for "Bo of Denmark", as Dacia was often used as the Latin term for Denmark) was a 13th-century philosopher.
Boetius was born in the first half of the 13th century.
Not much is known of his early life, and the attempt to connect him to known persons from Denmark or Sweden has not been successful.
All that is known is that he went to teach philosophy at the University of Paris.
There he associated with Siger of Brabant, and with Siger (together with such figures as Roger Bacon and Jean Buridan) shared the unusual career path of continuing to teach for some time as arts masters rather than quickly moving on to study in the theology faculty or finding non-academic employment.
He was condemned by Stephen Tempier in 1277 as being a leading member of the Averroist movement.
Boetius fled Paris with Siger, and appealed to Pope Nicholas III.
He was detained at the pontifical curia at Orvieto, and went on to join the Dominicans in Dacia.
Boetius was a follower of Aristotle and Averroes, and wrote on logic, natural philosophy, metaphysics, and ethics, though some of his works have not survived.
His central position was that philosophy had to follow the arguments where they led, regardless of their conflict with religious faith.
For him, philosophy was the supreme human activity, and in this world only philosophers attained wisdom; in his book On the Highest Good, or On the Life of the Philosopher he offers a fervently Aristotelian description of man's highest good as the rational contemplation of truth and virtue.
Among the controversial conclusions that he reached are the impossibility of creation ex nihilo, the eternity of the world and of the human race, and that there could be no resurrection of the dead.
Despite his radical views, Boetius remained a Christian, and attempted to reconcile his religious beliefs with his philosophical position by assigning the investigation of the world and of human nature to philosophy, while to religion he assigned supernatural revelation and divine miracles.
He was condemned for holding the doctrine of double truth, though he was careful to avoid calling philosophical conclusions that ran contrary to religion true simpliciter; in each branch of knowledge, one must be careful to qualify one's conclusions.
The conclusions that the philosopher reaches are true "according to natural causes and principles" (De Aeternitate Mundi, p.&nbsp;351).
Hew Martin Lorimer (22 May 1907 – 1 September 1993) was a Scottish sculptor.
He was born in Edinburgh, the second son of architect Sir Robert Lorimer.
He was educated at Loretto School in Musselburgh, then at Magdalen College, Oxford University, but he left Oxford prematurely to study design and sculpture at Edinburgh College of Art.
After graduating in 1934, he entered an apprenticeship with sculptor and stonemason Eric Gill.
Lorimer was principally an architectural sculptor, and his profound religious beliefs had a lasting effect on his art and subject matter.
After World War II, he worked on many grand sculptures, including Our Lady of the Isles, 1958, a massive granite statue of the mother and child sited at Rueval on South Uist.
Between 1950 and 1955 he also sculpted the artwork adorning the facade of the National Library of Scotland in Edinburgh, for which he produced a series of tall, allegorical figures, depicting history, law, medicine, music, poetry, science and theology.
The architect of the library was Reginald Fairlie, with whom Lormier worked a great deal.
He was awarded an OBE in 1986 for services to architecture and conservation.
Lorimer lived in Kellie Castle in Fife, and died in a nursing home in St Andrews in 1993.
He was survived by his sons, Robert and Henry, and daughter, Monica.
The castle is owned today by the National Trust for Scotland who maintain a changing exhibition of his works plus those of his father, Robert Lorimer, and his uncle, the painter John Henry Lorimer.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion and does not establish a state religion; however, in practice the Government imposes legal restrictions on all forms of religious expression.
All groups must register in order to gain legal status; unregistered religious activity is illegal and may be punished by administrative fines.
While the 2003 law on religion and subsequent 2004 amendments had effectively restricted registration to only the two largest groups, Sunni Muslim and Russian Orthodox, and criminalized unregistered religious activity, presidential decrees issued in 2004 dramatically reduced the numerical thresholds for registration and abolished criminal penalties for unregistered religious activity; civil penalties remain.
As a result, nine minority religious groups were able to register, and the Turkmenistan government has permitted some other groups to meet quietly with reduced scrutiny.
There was no substantial change in the degree of religious tolerance by the Turkmenistan government during the period covered by this report, and there were troubling developments in the treatment of some unregistered groups.
Following a sharp decrease in harassment of both registered and unregistered groups in late 2006, mistreatment of some registered and many unregistered religious minority group members, similar to that in previous reporting periods, resumed in February 2007.
On December 21, 2006, President Saparmurat Niyazov died.
The State Security Council appointed Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers and Minister of Health Gurbanguly Berdimuhammedov Acting President; Berdimuhammedov was elected President in February, 2007.
During the reporting period there were no indications the Turkmenistan government planned to rescind or modify previous policies regarding religious freedom.
The Turkmenistan government threatened members of minority religious groups with fines, loss of employment and housing, and imprisonment because of their beliefs.
There were no reports of societal abuses or violence based on religious beliefs or practice.
The overwhelming majority of citizens identify themselves as Sunni Muslim; ethnic Turkmen identity is linked to Islam.
Ethnic Turkmen who choose to convert to other religious groups, especially the lesser-known Protestant groups, are viewed with suspicion and sometimes ostracized, but Turkmenistan society historically has been tolerant and inclusive of different religious beliefs.
The Turkmen of Turkmenistan, like their neighbors in Uzbekistan, Afghanistan, and Iran are Muslim.
As a whole, Turkmenistan is 89% Muslim and 9% Eastern Orthodox.
Most ethnic Russians are Orthodox Christians.
The remaining 2% is unknown.
The great majority of Turkmen readily identify themselves as Muslims and acknowledge Islam as an integral part of their cultural heritage.
However, there are some who only support a revival of the religion's status merely as an element of national revival.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion; however, in practice the Government restricts these rights.
The criminal code outlaws violations of religious freedom or persecution by private actors; in practice it is not enforced.
In 2004 the Government published amendments to the 2003 law on religion that reduced numerical thresholds for registration from 500 members to 5, and made all minority groups eligible to register.
The amendments established two categories of religious assemblies: religious groups (comprising at least 5 and fewer than 50 members of legal age) and religious organizations (comprising at least 50 members).
The amendments leave significant gray areas in the law.
The 2003 law requires all religious organizations to register, made operation of unregistered religious organizations a criminal offense, further restricted religious education, and monitored financial and material assistance to religious groups from foreign sources.
In response to international pressure, a 2004 presidential decree lifted criminal penalties.
The remaining civil law continues to allow the Government to control religious life and to restrict the activities of all religious groups.
The 2003 law did not codify religious activities in localities other than where a group was registered.
In October 2005 the Government announced a temporary procedure for the registration of religious groups' regional branches by issuing powers of attorney.
Ministry of Justice (MOJ) representatives also stated that amendments would be made to the 2003 law on religion that would codify the branch registration issue, but this did not happen during the reporting period.
Former President Niyazov signed a decree in 2004 that strengthened the 2003 law on religious practice and religious organizations and increased registration fees for religious organizations to $100 (2.5 million manat at the unofficial rate).
In addition the decree relieved the MOJ of the obligation to publish in the local media a list of registered religious organizations for transparency.
Without a published list, legally registered groups were more isolated and the public was less able to respond when authorities harassed registered groups.
The law also gave the MOJ the right to cancel a group's registration based on vaguely defined charges.
The government-appointed Council on Religious Affairs (CRA) reports to the president and ostensibly acts as an intermediary between the government bureaucracy and registered religious organizations.
It includes Sunni Muslim imams and the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, as well as government representatives, but no representatives of minority religious groups.
In practice the CRA acts as an arm of the state, exercising direct control over the hiring, promotion, and firing of both Sunni Muslim and Russian Orthodox clergy as well as helping to control all religious publications and activities.
Its writ is enforced by security forces, specifically the Sixth Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and it has no role in promoting interfaith dialogue.
Although the Government does not officially favor any religion, it has provided financial and other support to the CRA for the construction of new mosques.
The Government also pays most Muslim clerics' salaries, approves all senior cleric appointments, and requires the latter to report regularly to the CRA.
Until June 2004 government entities at all levels, including the courts, had interpreted the laws in such a way as to discriminate against those practicing any faith other than Sunni Islam or Russian Orthodox Christianity, whose congregations represented the only two registered religious groups.
A 2004 decree reduced the minimum required number of adherents for registration, however, and in the year following the decree, nine additional religious groups registered: the Evangelical Christian Baptist Church of Turkmenistan, Seventh-day Adventist Church of Turkmenistan, Baha'i Community of Turkmenistan, Society for Krishna Consciousness (Hare Krishnas), Full Gospel Christian Church of Turkmenistan (Pentecostals), Light of the East Church (Dashoguz Pentecostal Church), Greater Grace Church of Turkmenistan, International Church of Christ, and the New Apostolic Church of Turkmenistan.
Each of these groups comprised fewer than 50 members.
Shi'a Muslims remained unregistered, and there were no reports that they tried to register since the March 2004 decree, although they remained in contact with the CRA.
In practice government policies, including those at the city level such as zoning regulations on the use of private residences, have created difficulties for some groups in finding places to hold worship services.
According to the national residential code, no religious activity is allowed in private homes or in public halls located in residential areas.
However, two registered religious groups, the Baha'i community and the Krishna Consciousness Society, were permitted to conduct worship meetings in homes.
Unregistered religious groups and unregistered branches of religious groups are forbidden to conduct religious activities, including gathering, disseminating religious materials, and proselytizing.
Government authorities have disrupted meetings of unregistered religious groups.
Participants in those groups are subject to fines and administrative (not criminal) arrest under the administrative code.
The Government prohibits foreign missionary activity and foreign religious organizations; however, the law does not restrict the worship choices of foreigners.
The Government has incorporated some aspects of Islamic tradition in its effort to redefine a national identity.
For example, the Government has built large, monumental mosques, such as the ones in Ashgabat, Gokdepe, and Gypjak.
Despite its embrace of certain aspects of Islamic culture, the Government is concerned about foreign Islamic influence and the interpretation of Islam by local believers.
The Government promotes a moderate understanding of Islam based on Turkmen religious and national traditions.
In April 2007, President Berdimuhammedov visited Saudi Arabia and performed umrah (minor pilgrimage) rituals in Mecca, recalling former President Niyazov's 1992 umrah.
The CRA has urged imams to accord greater attention to President Niyazov's spiritual-social books on culture and heritage, Ruhnama and Ruhnama II, by teaching them as holy texts and placing them next to the Qur'an in some mosques.
Although the country elected a new president in February 2007, this policy did not change.
Phrases from the Ruhnama are inscribed on the large mosque in former President Niyazov's home village of Gypjak.
In 2003 the widely respected former mufti of the country, Nasrullah Ibn Ibadullah, was replaced, secretly tried, and sentenced in 2004 to 22 years in prison.
Ibn Ibadullah's replacement, Kakageldi Wepayev, was subsequently placed under house arrest for "misbehavior"-allegedly including drinking and womanizing-and replaced in 2004 by then 27-year-old recent seminary graduate Rowshen Allaberdiyev.
Mosques and Muslim clergy are state-sponsored and financed.
The Russian Orthodox Church and other religious groups are independently financed.
The Government recognizes only Sunni Muslim holy days as national holidays.
These include Gurban Bairam (Eid al-Adha), a 3-day holiday commemorating the end of the Hajj, and Oraza-Bairam (Eid al-Fitr), commemorating the end of Ramadan, the Muslim month of fasting.
The Government does not offer alternative civilian service for conscientious objectors; individuals who want to refuse military service for religious reasons are offered noncombatant roles within the military.
Until June 2007, conscripted members of the Jehovah's Witnesses were returned home unharmed several days after being called up, although they were not given papers excusing them from military service, which are needed for employment.
This policy changed in June 2007, however, when three Jehovah's Witnesses were arrested and charged with avoiding military service.
There is no official religious instruction in public schools; however, the Government requires all public schools and institutes of higher learning to hold regular instruction on the Ruhnama.
The Ministry of Education requires that each child bring a personal copy of the Ruhnama to school.
President Berdimuhammedov raised the issue of education reform in January 2007 but there was no change in the Ruhnama policy by the end of the reporting period.
Article Six of the November 2004 law allows mosques to provide religious education to children after school for 4 hours a week with the approval of parents.
Persons who graduate from institutions of higher religious education (the law does not specify domestic or international institutions) and who obtain CRA approval may provide religious education.
Citizens have the right to receive religious education individually or with other persons; however, the law prohibits providing religious education in private, and those who do so are subject to punitive legal action.
Although some independent religious education exists, the Government has done nothing to promote religious education beyond the official version incorporating the Ruhnama.
Some Sunni mosques have regularly scheduled classes on the Qur'an.
The 2003 law prohibits the ROC from conducting religious education programs without CRA and presidential approval, and there were no reports that either the CRA or the President approved such programs.
Homeschooling usually is allowed only in cases of severe illness or disability and not for religious reasons.
The Government, through the CRA, does little to promote interfaith understanding or dialogue beyond that between Muslims and Russian Orthodox Christians.
The Government officially has banned only extremist groups advocating violence, but it also categorized Islamic groups advocating stricter interpretation of Islamic religious doctrine as "extremist."
The activities of unregistered religious groups remained illegal, with violators subject to fines and administrative arrest under the administrative code.
During the reporting period, at least four religious groups, all of which sought several times to register, continued to be denied legal status; as in previous years, the Government delayed or denied applications, citing technical reasons, including the requirement that the head of the group have "higher education."
The Roman Catholic Church remained unregistered because of a conflict with local law requiring that the head of the Church be a citizen of the country.
Other groups either remained fearful of registering, citing the amount and type of information the Government required, or refused on principle to do so.
Registered religious minority groups reported few instances of harassment.
However, in two cases regional affiliates of registered groups experienced harassment by provincial and district law enforcement agencies.
Some of these groups found that by routinely notifying the Government of their gatherings and events and inviting government representatives to attend, they experienced decreased government harassment.
The Government restricted unregistered religious groups from establishing places of worship, and violations constituted an administrative offense.
Registered groups also experienced difficulties establishing and maintaining places of worship; several groups stated that their largest obstacle was a lack of funds to rent a public hall.
Several groups said they would prefer to buy a worship center or land to establish a permanent one, but municipal authorities raised insurmountable bureaucratic hurdles.
Five registered minority religious groups have established public places of worship; three were rented and two were private residential homes of group members.
The Government did not restrict some worship services in private homes, and the CRA assisted several registered minority groups to locate suitable worship locations.
The Government forbids unregistered religious groups or unregistered branches of registered religious groups from gathering publicly or privately and can punish individuals or groups who violate these prohibitions.
Some unregistered congregations continued to practice quietly, largely in private homes.
The Government also controls access to Islamic education.
The theology faculty at Turkmen State University in Ashgabat had been the only academic faculty to conduct Islamic education.
In July 2005 the President dissolved the theology faculty and incorporated the theology students and curriculum into the university's history department, leaving no official Islamic academic faculty.
The Government does not officially restrict persons from changing their religious beliefs and affiliation, but ethnic Turkmen members of unregistered religious groups accused of proselytizing and disseminating religious material generally receive harsher treatment than nonethnic Turkmen.
During this reporting period, there was one report of local government officials attempting to force an ethnic Turkmen Christian convert to renounce his faith.
There were three high-level officials in the Government with a Russian Jewish heritage, and at least one deputy minister who is Russian Orthodox.
No representatives of other minority religious groups were known to be working at senior or mid-level government positions during the reporting period.
Some minority religious group adherents remained members of the only political party but feared openly acknowledging their faith out of concern for political reprisal.
The Government monitored minority religious groups, particularly those perceived to have connections with or support from a supranational hierarchy.
The law prohibits foreign missionary activity, although in practice both Christians and Muslims working in the country in other capacities engaged in religious outreach.
The 2003 law on religion stipulated that religious groups must report any financial or material assistance received from foreign sources.
The Government denies visas to foreigners suspected of conducting or intending to conduct missionary activity.
By decree, publishing religious literature was prohibited, limiting the availability of Qur'ans, Bibles and other religious literature.
Sacred religious books were rarely available for purchase.
In practice the CRA must approve imported religious literature.
Since all members of the CRA are either government officials, Sunni Muslims or members of the ROC, minority religious groups were disadvantaged regarding importing of religious materials.
When the CRA approves the importation of a publication, the number of imported copies cannot exceed the number of registered group members.
The Dashoguz office of the CRA required that its officers stamp religious literature, including Bibles and Qur'ans, in order to authorize it.
During the reporting period, a leader of an unregistered church in Dashoguz reported that officials confiscated religious literature from him on a train and intercepted religious literature that had been mailed to him.
The Government enforced the use of former President Niyazov's books, Ruhnama and Ruhnama II, in educational institutions, government offices, and mosques.
Copies of the book were kept in most mosques, and authorities have pressured religious leaders to place it alongside the Qur'an and to preach Ruhnama in their services.
In 2004 the Government formally lifted the exit visa requirement, theoretically permitting travel by all those who wished to participate in the Hajj or other travel for religious purposes; however, the Government maintained a "black list" of individuals and continued to limit freedom of movement, including in cases where individuals wanted to travel outside the country in order to conduct religious study.
The Government continued to limit participation in the annual pilgrimage to Mecca (the Hajj), specifying that only 188 pilgrims (one plane load) personally approved by the President, out of the country's quota of 4,600, would be allowed to travel to Mecca.
The national airline provided transportation free of charge.
According to Forum 18, the Government on January 6, 2007 refused to grant permission to Merdan Shirmedov, a Protestant from an ethnic Turkmen fellowship in Dashoguz, to leave the country to join his pregnant wife, Wendy Lucas in the United States.
Lucas said that on April 10, 2007, Shirmedov tried to cross the border to Uzbekistan, but was prevented from leaving after Turkmenistan border guards found his name on a computerized exit blacklist.
Officials refused to tell him why he was barred from leaving.
Foreign members of registered and unregistered religious groups continued to be denied entry visas.
Several registered religious minority groups reported that the Government monitored them by attending their gatherings; nonetheless, communities continued to engage in regular activities.
Officers from the Sixth Department in Ashgabat, the division charged with fighting organized crime and terrorism, were still charged with monitoring members of religious minorities.
The Government continued to discriminate against members of religious groups with respect to employment.
Following a sharp decrease in harassment of both registered and unregistered groups in late 2006, mistreatment of some registered and many unregistered religious minority group members resumed following the inauguration of President Berdimuhammedov in February 2007.
The Government threatened members of minority religious groups with fines, loss of employment and housing, and imprisonment because of their beliefs.
There were also reports of raids.
According to Forum 18, Ministry for National Security (MNB) officials arrested Vyacheslav Kalataevsky, a Baptist leader from Turkmenbashy, on March 12, 2007, and on May 14 he was sentenced to 3 years' imprisonment in a labor camp on criminal charges of illegally crossing the border in 2001.
In 2001, authorities had deported Kalataevsky without documents to Kazakhstan, and after a week he crossed back into the country to rejoin his wife and children.
Forum 18 also reported the arrest on May 19 of the leader of a Council of Churches Baptist congregation in Turkmenbashy City, Yevgeny Potolov.
The report speculated that Potolov, a Russian citizen, had also been arrested for entering the country illegally in 2001; authorities had deported Potolov to Kazakhstan, but he had returned to Turkmenistan to rejoin his wife and children.
During incidents involving police detaining and questioning members of unregistered minority religious groups, authorities took a range of actions including: filming those present; recording the names, addresses, and places of work of the congregants; threatening fines and imprisonment; and confiscating religious literature.
With the exception of the Kalataevsky and Potolov cases, there were fewer reports of prolonged detention or physical abuse.
The fate of an estimated 30 suspected "Wahhabis" reportedly detained in Ashgabat in August 2005 remains unknown.
The country's former mufti, Nasrullah ibn Ibadullah, remained in prison serving a 22-year sentence.
Ibadullah had been dismissed as mufti in 2003, reportedly in part for his refusal to teach the Ruhnama as a sacred text and in March 2004 was secretly tried and convicted, reportedly for his alleged role in a failed 2002 assassination attempt on Niyazov.
Little was known about the whereabouts or the condition of Ibadullah, despite calls from the international community for access to him and for his release.
Amnesty International reported in early 2007 that his family was increasingly concerned for his safety.
Jehovah's Witnesses have reported a number of beatings, arrests, fines and imprisonments of its members in Turkmenistan for conscientious objection and other charges related to their religious activities.
On April 29, 2007, an unidentified official—possibly from the Sixth Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs—demanded and then fled with the travel documents of three members of an unregistered Mary-based group who were traveling by train to Dashoguz province to meet with a religious leader.
A transportation official, finding the three group members without documents, returned them by train to Ashgabat the same day.
On April 19, 2007, officials from the Ministry of Internal Affairs' Sixth Department raided a branch of the registered Evangelical Baptist Church of Turkmenistan in Turkmenbashy.
The authorities came to a worship service, and took Bibles and hymnals from the congregation.
That evening, police summoned two women to a local official's office and fined them approximately $90 (2.5 million manat), threatening further harassment if the women did not pay.
The police gave no specific reason for the harassment, but suggested that the women ought to be attending a Russian Orthodox Church.
In early 2007 law enforcement officials reportedly raided a meeting of the registered group Svet Vostoka (Light of the East) Pentecostal church in Dashoguz.
On March 18, 2007, authorities raided a meeting of an unregistered religious group in Abadan and fined home owners.
On February 4, 2007, a group of law enforcement officers, who refused to show identification or a search warrant, raided the private house of the leader of an unregistered Christian group, where a wide circle of relatives and family friends were gathered.
The inhabitants of the house were not conducting any religious activities.
For five hours, the group of officers videotaped the people and belongings inside the house.
A Hare Krishna representative reported that harassment from officials had decreased since her group's registration; there were no reports of authorities beating Hare Krishnas during this reporting period.
In October 2006, as part of a general annual prison amnesty, former President Niyazov released imprisoned Hare Krishna follower Ceper Annaniyazova, who had been sentenced to seven years in prison in November 2005 for having illegally crossed the border in 2002.
The Government did not destroy any mosques during the reporting period and, in fact, resumed renovation of a mosque in Mary City and on a mosque in the new president's home village.
One mosque in Turkmenbashy was destroyed in 2006.
In 2004 at least six mosques were destroyed, some for no stated reason, others ostensibly for Ashgabat city "beautification" plans.
In 2004 a Sunni cemetery north of the capital was leveled.
Another cemetery in Ashgabat was being encroached upon by a high-rise development.
In 2004 Muslims in Bagyr, a predominantly Kurdish suburb of Ashgabat, reported they could no longer bury their family members in traditional cemeteries but instead were obliged to use a centralized location.
The Government restricts the number of mosques by requiring permission for construction.
Government policy is that every community should have one mosque; however, in 2004 President Niyazov ordered that no more mosques were to be built without CRA approval and stated mosques would henceforth be led by state-appointed imams.
There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.
Improvements and Positive Developments in Respect for Religious Freedom Registered minority religious groups generally continued to report lower levels of harassment.
In a May 2007 meeting with embassy officers, the Deputy Chairman of the CRA agreed in principle to hold another minority religious group roundtable to discuss pressing concerns, similar to the one held on October 20, 2005.
The CRA intervened on one occasion during the reporting period to release religious literature that had been embargoed by the Customs Department.
There were no reports of general societal abuses based on religious belief or practice during the period covered by this report.
Many Muslims do not regularly attend mosques; however, the overwhelming majority of the population identify themselves as "Muslim," and national identity is linked to Islam.
(Turkmen society considers an individual to be born into an ethno-religious group.)
Departures from the pattern are rare and either receive little support or are criticized.
Ethnic Turkmen who choose to convert from Islam to other religious groups are viewed with suspicion and sometimes ostracized.
Despite strong ties between Islam and national identity, the society historically has been tolerant and inclusive of different religious beliefs.
For example, in the early part of the 20th century Ashgabat was a refuge for Baha'is escaping persecution in Iran, and a Baha'i temple was built in the city at that time.
Government repression of minority religious groups does not reflect doctrinal or societal friction between the Muslim majority and minority religious groups.
Rather, it reportedly reflects the Government's concern that the proliferation of nontraditional religious groups could undermine state control, promote civil unrest, facilitate undue influence by foreign interests, and destabilize the Government.
There is also a societal distrust of foreign-based religious groups and the belief that Islam from outside the country is "Wahhabist"—extremist.
Dogma is a principle or set of principles laid down by an authority as incontrovertibly true.
It serves as part of the primary basis of an ideology or belief system, and it cannot be changed or discarded without affecting the very system's paradigm, or the ideology itself.
The term can refer to acceptable opinions of philosophers or philosophical schools, public decrees, religion, or issued decisions of political authorities.
The term derives from Greek "that which seems to one; opinion or belief" and that from (dokeo), "to think, to suppose, to imagine".
In the first century CE, dogma came to signify laws or ordinances adjudged and imposed upon others.
The plural is either dogmas or dogmata, from Greek .
The term "dogmatics" is used as a synonym for systematic theology, as in Karl Barth's defining textbook of neo-orthodoxy, the 14-volume Church Dogmatics.
Dogmata are found in religions such as Christianity, Judaism, and Islam, where they are considered core principles that must be upheld by all believers of that religion.
As a fundamental element of religion, the term "dogma" is assigned to those theological tenets which are considered to be unanimously agreed upon, such that their proposed disputation or revision effectively means that a person no longer accepts the given religion as his or her own, or has entered into a period of personal doubt.
Dogma is distinguished from theological opinion regarding those things considered less well-known.
Dogmata may be clarified and elaborated upon, but not contradicted in novel teachings (e.g., Galatians 1:6-9).
Rejection of dogma may lead to expulsion from a religious group.
In Christianity, religious beliefs are defined by the Church.
It is usually based upon scripture or communicated by church authority.
It is believed that these dogmas will lead human beings towards redemption and thus the “path which leads to God".
Protestants to differing degrees affirm portions of these dogmata, and often rely on denomination-specific "Statements of Faith" which summarize their chosen dogmata (see, e.g., Eucharist).
For Catholicism and Eastern Christianity, the dogmata are contained in the Nicene Creed and the canon laws of two, three, seven, or twenty ecumenical councils (depending on whether one is "Nestorian", Oriental Orthodox, Eastern Orthodox, or Roman Catholic).
These tenets are summarized by St. John of Damascus in his Exact Exposition of the Orthodox Faith, which is the third book of his main work, titled The Fount of Knowledge.
In this book he takes a dual approach in explaining each article of the faith: one, for Christians, where he uses quotes from the Bible and, occasionally, from works of other Fathers of the Church, and the second, directed both at non-Christians (but who, nevertheless, hold some sort of religious belief) and at atheists, for whom he employs Aristotelian logic and dialectics.
The decisions of fourteen later councils that Catholics hold as dogmatic and numerous decrees promulgated by Popes' exercising papal infallibility (for examples, see Immaculate Conception and Assumption of Mary) are considered as being a part of the Church's sacred body of doctrine.
In Islam, the dogmatic principles are contained in the aqidah Religious organizations have begun defending their religions, stating that since one can not prove a negative, then atheists who point out the scientific inadequacies within religions must, necessarily, be dogmatic.
The arguments often depend on the presuppositionalist's view that since they believe their idea of God created humans, then anything that humans do to counter their religion is dogmatic.
As a possible reaction to skepticism, dogmatism is a set of beliefs or doctrines that are established as undoubtedly in truth.
They are regarded as (religious) truths relating closely to the nature of faith.
The term "dogmatic" can be used disparagingly to refer to any belief that is held stubbornly, including political and scientific beliefs.
A notable use of the term can be found in the Central Dogma of Molecular Biology.
In his autobiography, What Mad Pursuit, Francis Crick wrote about his choice of the word dogma and some of the problems it caused him: <blockquote> I called this idea the central dogma, for two reasons, I suspect.
I had already used the obvious word hypothesis in the sequence hypothesis, and in addition I wanted to suggest that this new assumption was more central and more powerful.
... As it turned out, the use of the word dogma caused almost more trouble than it was worth....
Many years later Jacques Monod pointed out to me that I did not appear to understand the correct use of the word dogma, which is a belief that cannot be doubted...
I used the word the way I myself thought about it, not as most of the world does, and simply applied it to a grand hypothesis that, however plausible, had little direct experimental support.
Similarly, Horace Freeland Judson records in The Eighth Day of Creation: <blockquote>"My mind was, that a dogma was an idea for which there was no reasonable evidence.
And Crick gave a roar of delight.
"I just didn't know what dogma meant.
And I could just as well have called it the 'Central Hypothesis,' or — you know.
Which is what I meant to say.
Dogma was just a catch phrase.
"<
God the Invisible King is a theological tract published by H.G.
Wells in 1917.
Wells describes his aim as to state "as forcibly and exactly as possible the religious belief of the writer."
He distinguishes his religious beliefs from Christianity, and warns readers that he is "particularly uncompromising" on the doctrine of the Trinity, which he blames on "the violent ultimate crystallization of Nicaea."
He pleads for a "modern religion" or "renascent religion" that has "no revelation and no founder."
Wells rejects any belief related to God as Nature or the Creator, confining himself to the "finite" God "of the human heart."
He devotes a chapter to misconceptions about God that are due to mistaken "mental elaboration" as opposed to "heresies of speculation," and says that the God in which he believes has nothing to do with magic, providence, quietism, punishment, the threatening of children, or sexual ethics.
Positively, in a chapter entitled "The Likeness of God," he states his belief that God is courage, a person, youth (i.e.
forward- rather than backward-looking), and love.
Wells finds in scientific atheists like Metchnikoff beliefs that are equivalent to what he regards as "the fundamental proposition of religious translated into terms of materialistic science, the proposition that damnation is really over-individuation and that salvation is escape from self into the larger being of life."
In God the Invisible King, Wells regards belief in God as welling up from within the individual: "if you do not feel God then there is no persuading you of him; we cannot win over the incredulous."
The book argues that God seeks "the conquest of death," through a struggle to "transform the world into a theocracy" that he regards as "more and more manifestly the real future of mankind," not through suffering or non-resistance.
Sin is seen not as bad conduct but as the product of disharmonies of "the inner being" that "snatch us away from our devotion to God's service" and such weaknesses "cannot damn a man once he has found God."
A final seventh chapter rejects the idea that "the new religion" can or should be organised into a church: "Whatever religious congregations men may form henceforth in the name of the true God must be for their own sakes and not to take charge of religion."
In a section titled "The State Is God's Instrument," Wells speaks of a coming "theocracy" and argues that in the probably not too distant future "Religion which is free, speaking freely through whom it will, subject to a perpetual unlimited criticism, will be the life and driving power of the whole organised world.
So that if you prefer not to say that there will be no church, if you choose rather to declare that the world-state is God's church, you may have it so if you will."
In an "envoy," Wells invokes "my friend and master, that very great American, the late William James," as one who shared his conception of God.
He asserts that "modern religion" is "a process of truth, guided by the divinity in men.
It needs no other guidance, and no protection.
It needs nothing but freedom, free speech, and honest statement."
Biographers (including Wells himself) agree in regarding this foray into theology, which is also remarkable in the novel Mr. Britling Sees It Through (1916), as the result of the trauma of World War I.
God the Invisible King "was so different from what Wells normally wrote that most people did not know how to handle it."
The book led to Wells having lunch with the Archbishop of Canterbury, and provoked a number of works controverting his statement of his beliefs.
Wells later repudiated the God of God the Invisible King as "no God at all."
"What we have here is really a falling back of the mind towards immaturity under the stress of dismay and anxiety.
I thought it was pitiful that [men looking for some lodestar for their loyalty] should pin their minds to 'King and Country' and suchlike claptrap, when they might live and die for greater ends, and I did my utmost to personify and animate a greater, remoter objective in God the Invisible King.
So by a sort of coup d'état I turned my New Republic for a time into a divine monarchy."
"In What Are We to Do with Our Lives?
(1932) I make the most explicit renunciation and apology for this phase of terminological disingenuousness."
Burwell v. Hobby Lobby, , is a landmark decision by the United States Supreme Court allowing closely held for-profit corporations to be exempt from a law its owners religiously object to if there is a less restrictive means of furthering the law's interest.
It is the first time that the court has recognized a for-profit corporation's claim of religious belief, but it is limited to closely held corporations.
The decision is an interpretation of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) and does not address whether such corporations are protected by the free-exercise of religion clause of the First Amendment of the Constitution.
For such companies, the Court's majority directly struck down the contraceptive mandate, a regulation adopted by the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) requiring employers to cover certain contraceptives for their female employees, by a 5-4 vote.< The ruling could have widespread impact, allowing corporations to claim religious exemptions from federal laws.
The United States Supreme Court ruled in Employment Division v. Smith (1990) that a person may not defy neutral laws of general applicability even as an expression of religious belief.
"To permit this," wrote Justice Scalia, citing the 1878 Reynolds v. United States decision, "would make the professed doctrines of religious belief superior to the law of the land, and in effect to permit every citizen to become a law unto himself."
He wrote that generally applicable laws do not have to meet the standard of strict scrutiny, because such a requirement would create "a private right to ignore generally applicable laws".
Strict scrutiny would require a law to be the least restrictive means of furthering a compelling government interest.
In 1993, the US Congress responded by passing the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA), requiring strict scrutiny when a neutral law of general applicability "substantially burden[s] a person’s exercise of religion".
The RFRA was amended in 2000 by the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act (RLUIPA) to redefine exercise of religion as any exercise of religion, "whether or not compelled by, or central to, a system of religious belief", which is to be "construed in favor of a broad protection of religious exercise, to the maximum extent permitted by the terms of this chapter and the Constitution".
The Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the RFRA as applied to federal statutes in Gonzales v. O Centro Espirita in 2006.
Most Americans are covered by employer-sponsored health insurance.
In 2010, Congress passed the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which relies on the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), part of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), to specify what kinds of preventive care for women should be covered in certain employer-based health plans.
HHS exempted religious employers (churches and their integrated auxiliaries, associations of churches, and any religious order), non-profit organizations that object to any required contraception, employers providing grandfathered plans (that have not had specific changes before March 23, 2010), and employers with fewer than 50 employees.
The HRSA decided that all twenty contraceptives approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) should be covered.
Companies that refuse are fined $100 per individual per day, or they can replace their health coverage with higher wages and a calibrated tax.
Hobby Lobby is an arts and crafts company founded by self-made billionaire David Green and owned by the Evangelical Christian Green family with about 21,000 employees.
It provided the contraceptives Plan-B and Ella until it dropped its coverage in 2012, the year it filed its lawsuit.
It is the largest funder of the National Christian Charitable Foundation that uses its billion-dollar endowment to fund a network of political groups including the Alliance Defending Freedom, which recently supported the Arizona SB 1062 bill that attracted national controversy.
The Hobby Lobby case also involved Mardel Christian and Educational Supply, which is owned by Mart Green, one of David's sons.
Hobby Lobby's case was consolidated with another case by Conestoga Wood Specialties, a furniture company owned by the Mennonite Hahn family that has about 1,000 employees.
They were being represented by Alliance Defending Freedom.
The Green and Hahn families believe that life begins at conception which they equate to fertilization, and object to their closely held for-profit corporations providing health insurance coverage to their female employees of four FDA-approved contraceptives that the Green and Hahn families believe may prevent implantation of a fertilized egg (many doctors and scientists disagree), which the Green and Hahn families believe constitutes an abortion.
In September 2012, Hobby Lobby filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma against enforcement of the contraception rule based on the RFRA and the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment.
The district court denied Hobby Lobby's request for a preliminary injunction.
In March 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit granted a hearing of the case.
In June, the appeals court ruled that Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc. is a person who has religious freedom.
The court ordered the government to stop enforcement of the contraception rule on Hobby Lobby and sent the case back to the district court, which granted preliminary injunction in July.
In September, the government appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court.
Two other federal appeals courts ruled against the contraception coverage rule, while another two upheld it.
The case was previously titled Sebelius v. Hobby Lobby.
Sylvia Burwell was automatically substituted as petitioner when she was approved by the United States Senate as the Secretary of Health and Human Services after being nominated by President Barack Obama to replace Kathleen Sebelius following Sibelius' resignation on April 10, 2014.
On November 26, the Supreme Court accepted and consolidated the case with Conestoga Wood Specialties v. Sebelius.
Two dozen amicus briefs support the government, and five dozen support the companies.
American Freedom Law Center's brief argues that birth control harms women because men will only want them "for the satisfaction of [their] own desires."
Another brief argues that the contraception rule leads to "the maximization of sexual activity".
Two of the briefs oppose each other on the constitutionality of the RFRA.
Two briefs that do not formally take sides oppose each other on whether the right to religion applies to corporations.
One of those briefs argues that if shareholders are separated by the corporate veil from corporate liabilities, then their religious values are also separate from the corporation.
It mentions the ruling in Domino's Pizza, Inc. v. McDonald made against the African American owner of JWM Investments whose contracts were breached due to racial discrimination.
The brief argues that if JWM Investments could not suffer discrimination through its owner, then Hobby Lobby could not suffer religious burden through its owner.
Two briefs were filed by LGBT groups concerned that future anti-discrimination laws would be pre-emptively harmed if employers could claim to be religiously exempt.
Oral arguments were held on March 25, 2014 for 30 minutes more than the usual one hour.
The three women in the court focused their questioning on Hobby Lobby's lawyer, Paul D. Clement, while the men focused on the administration's lawyer, Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, Jr. Justice Sotomayor quoted the ruling from United States v. Lee (1982) saying that an employer can't deprive employees of a statutory right because of religious beliefs.
Clement replied that Lee does not apply because it was a challenge against a tax rather than against a significant burden.
Sotomayor said that instead of paying the burden of the penalty, Hobby Lobby could replace its health care with the equivalent expense of higher wages and a calibrated tax, which the government would use to pay for the employees' health care.
Near the end of Clement's argument, Justice Kennedy expressed concern for the rights of the employees who may not agree with the religious beliefs of their employers.
When Verrilli argued that the ruling in Cutter v. Wilkinson requires the court to weigh the impact on third parties in every RFRA case, Justice Scalia said that the RFRA does not require the court to balance the interest of the religious objector to the interest of other individuals.
Verilli returned to Lee, saying that granting an exemption to an employer should not impose the employer's religious faith on the employees.
On June 30, 2014, Associate Justice Samuel Alito delivered the judgment of the court.
Four justices (Roberts, Scalia, Kennedy, and Thomas) joined him to strike down the HHS mandate, as applied to closely held corporations with religious objections, and to prevent the plaintiffs from being compelled to provide contraception under their healthcare plans.
The ruling was reached on statutory grounds, citing the RFRA, because the mandate was not the "least restrictive" method of implementing the government's interest.
The ruling did not address Hobby Lobby's claims under the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment.
The court argued that the purpose of extending rights to corporations is to protect the rights of shareholders, officers, and employees.
It said that "allowing Hobby Lobby, Conestoga, and Mardel to assert RFRA claims protects the religious liberty of the Greens and the Hahns."
The court found that for-profit corporations could be considered persons under the RFRA.
It noted that the HHS treats nonprofit corporations as persons within the meaning of RFRA.
The court stated, "no conceivable definition of the term includes natural persons and nonprofit corporations, but not for-profit corporations."
Responding to lower court judges' suggestion that the purpose of for-profit corporations "is simply to make money", the court said, "For-profit corporations, with ownership approval, support a wide variety of charitable causes, and it is not at all uncommon for such corporations to further humanitarian and other altruistic objectives."
The court rejected the contention that "the Nation lacks a tradition of exempting for-profit corporations from generally applicable laws," pointing to a federal statute from 1993 that exempted any covered health care entity from engaging in "certain activities related to abortion".
The court held that the HHS contraception mandate substantially burdens the exercise of religion, rejecting an argument that the $2,000-per-employee penalty for dropping insurance coverage is less than the average cost of health insurance.
Responding to HHS's argument that the provision of coverage does not itself result in destruction of embryos, the Court asserted that the argument dodges the substantial burden question that the Court is supposed to address.
The Court added, citing Jesuit moral manuals, that the argument is also the religious question of the morality of enabling the immoral acts of others, to which HHS had provided “a binding national answer”.
The Court argued that federal courts should not answer religious questions because they would in effect be deciding whether certain beliefs are flawed.
The court argued that "companies would face a competitive disadvantage in retaining and attracting skilled workers," that increased wages for employees to buy individual coverage would be more costly than group health insurance, that any raise in wages would have to take income taxes into account, and that employers cannot deduct the penalty.
The court found it unnecessary to adjudicate on whether the HHS contraceptive mandate furthers a compelling government interest and held that HHS has not shown that the mandate is "the least restrictive means of furthering that compelling interest".
The court argued that the most straightforward alternative would be "for the Government to assume the cost..." and that HHS has not shown that it is not "a viable alternative".
The court said that the RFRA can "require creation of entirely new programs".
The court also pointed out that HHS already exempts any nonprofit organization from paying for any required contraception by allowing it to certify its religious objection to its insurance issuer, which must "[p]rovide separate payments for any contraceptive services required to be covered".
However, the court said the approach might not necessarily be the least restrictive alternative for all religious claims.
The court concluded by addressing "the possibility that discrimination in hiring, for example on the basis of race, might be cloaked as religious practice to escape legal sanction".
The court said that their decision "provides no such shield", and that "prohibitions on racial discrimination are precisely tailored to achieve that critical goal."
The court also said that the requirement to pay taxes despite any religious objection is different from the contraceptive mandate because "there simply is no less restrictive alternative to the categorical requirement to pay taxes."
The court acknowledged the dissent's "worries about forcing the federal courts to apply RFRA to a host of claims made by litigants seeking a religious exemption from generally applicable laws...", noting that this point was "made forcefully by the Court in Smith".
The court responded by saying, "Congress, in enacting RFRA, took the position that 'the compelling interest test as set forth in prior Federal court rulings is a workable test for striking sensible balances between religious liberty and competing prior governmental interests'...The wisdom of Congress’s judgment on this matter is not our concern.
Our responsibility is to enforce RFRA as written, and under the standard that RFRA prescribes, the HHS contraceptive mandate is unlawful."
Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote a concurring opinion, responding to the "respectful and powerful dissent", by emphasizing the limited nature of the ruling and saying that the government "makes the case that the mandate serves the Government’s compelling interest in providing insurance coverage that is necessary to protect the health of female employees", but that the RFRA's least-restrictive way requirement is not met because "there is an existing, recognized, workable, and already-implemented framework to provide coverage," the one that HHS has devised for non-profit corporations with religious objections.
"RFRA requires the Government to use this less restrictive means.
As the Court explains, this existing model, designed precisely for this problem, might well suffice to distinguish the instant cases from many others in which it is more difficult and expensive to accommodate a governmental program to countless religious claims based on an alleged statutory right of free exercise."
(Kennedy, J., concurring, p.&nbsp;3, 4) Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg delivered the primary dissent, which was joined by Justice Sotomayor in full and by Justices Breyer and Kagan as to all but Part III–C–1 on "whether a corporation qualifies as a 'person' capable of exercising religion".
Ginsburg began, "In a decision of startling breadth, the Court holds that commercial enterprises, including corporations, along with partnerships and sole proprietorships, can opt out of any law (saving only tax laws) they judge incompatible with their sincerely held religious beliefs.
...
Compelling governmental interests in uniform compliance with the law, and disadvantages that religion-based opt-outs impose on others, hold no sway, the Court decides, at least when there is a 'less restrictive alternative.'
And such an alternative, the Court suggests, there always will be whenever, in lieu of tolling an enterprise claiming a religion-based exemption, the government, i.e., the general public, can pick up the tab."
She challenged the majority's unprecedented view of for-profit religion saying "Until this litigation, no decision of this Court recognized a for-profit corporation’s qualification for a religious exemption from a generally applicable law, whether under the Free Exercise Clause or RFRA.
The absence of such precedent is just what one would expect, for the exercise of religion is characteristic of natural persons, not artificial legal entities...Religious organizations exist to foster the interests of persons subscribing to the same religious faith.
Not so of for-profit corporations.
Workers who sustain the operations of those corporations commonly are not drawn from one religious community."
Responding to the majority's argument that the government should "assume the cost" of contraceptives, Ginsburg said that "the nation’s only dedicated source of federal funding for safety net family planning services..." is not designed to absorb the unmet needs of those already insured.
She noted that "a less restrictive alternative" has not been written into law by Congress.
Ginsburg warns, "The Court, I fear, has ventured into a minefield..." Justices Breyer and Kagan wrote a one-paragraph dissenting opinion, saying that "the plaintiffs’ challenge to the contraceptive coverage requirement fails on the merits" and that they "need not and do not decide whether either for-profit corporations or their owners may bring claims under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993."
Barbara Green, co-founder of Hobby Lobby, said "Today, the nation's highest court has reaffirmed the vital importance of religious liberty as one of our country's founding principles.
The court's decision is a victory, not just for our family business, but for all who seek to live out their faith."
Conestoga CEO Anthony Hahn said, "Americans don't have to surrender their freedom when they open a family business."
Conservative and pro-life groups praised the ruling.
The National Review said that the Supreme Court ruling "[led] Alliance Defending Freedom attorney Matt Bowman to call Hobby Lobby an 'inclusive decision' that advances everyone’s freedom."
Susan B. Anthony List President Marjorie Dannenfelser said, "This is a great victory for religious liberty – the bedrock of our founding.
In living out our religious convictions, there are certain things we must not do.
This is why we are at a watershed moment.
Religious people will no longer be ordered to take action that our religion says we must not take."
</ref> Family Research Council President Tony Perkins said, "The Supreme Court has delivered one of the most significant victories for religious freedom in our generation.
We are thankful the Supreme Court agreed that the government went too far by mandating that family businesses owners must violate their consciences under threat of crippling fines."
The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops said, "We welcome the Supreme Court’s decision to recognize that Americans can continue to follow their faith when they run a family business...Now is the time to redouble our efforts to build a culture that fully respects religious freedom."
Pro-choice and civil-liberties groups criticized the ruling.
Cecile Richards, president of the Planned Parenthood Action Fund, said, "Today, the Supreme Court ruled against American women and families, giving bosses the right to discriminate against women and deny their employees access to birth control coverage.
This is a deeply disappointing and troubling ruling that will prevent some women, especially those working hourly-wage jobs and struggling to make ends meet, from getting birth control."
Deputy legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union Louise Melling said, "This is a deeply troubling decision.
For the first time, the highest court in the country has said that business owners can use their religious beliefs to deny their employees a benefit that they are guaranteed by law."
In an editorial, the New England Journal of Medicine called the decision "a setback for both the ACA's foundational goal of access to universal health care and for women's health care specifically", voicing concern that "in assessing the competing claims about abortion and birth control, the Court's majority focused on the religious claims of the corporations without discussing scientific or medical opinions."
In JAMA Internal Medicine, Alta Charo wrote that "consistent with a disturbing trend among courts and legislatures to misstate or misuse scientific information in the context of women's reproductive rights and health, the Supreme Court's decision ignored the well-accepted distinction between contraception and abortion."
The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, representing 90% of U.S. board-certified gynecologists, supported a bill to overturn the Hobby Lobby ruling.
White House spokesman Josh Earnest said, "Congress needs to take action to solve this problem that's been created and the administration stands ready to work with them to do so.
President Obama believes that women should make personal health care decisions for themselves, rather than their bosses deciding for them.
Today's decision jeopardizes the health of women that are employed by these companies."
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) said, "If the Supreme Court will not protect women’s access to health care, then Democrats will.
We will continue to fight to preserve women’s access to contraceptive coverage and keep bosses out of the examination room."
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said, "[T]he Obama administration cannot trample on the religious freedoms that Americans hold dear."
Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY), who introduced the RFRA in 1993, said his law "was not intended to extend the same protection to for-profit corporations, whose very purpose is to profit from the open market."
Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-Ohio) said, "The mandate overturned today would have required for-profit companies to choose between violating their constitutionally-protected faith or paying crippling fines, which would have forced them to lay off employees or close their doors."
House minority leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) said, "Although the Court restricted their ruling to ‘closely-held’ companies, this ruling will immediately affect the lives of millions of women across the country.
Over 90 percent of America’s businesses are ‘closely-held,’ including such large employers as Koch Industries and Bechtel.
Women should not be forced to jump through extra hoops to secure the fundamental health care they need.
Allowing employers and CEOs to limit the health care available to employees is a gross violation of their workers' religious rights.
It's just not her boss' business."
said, "Today's victory in the Hobby Lobby case is terrific news—but now is no time to rest.
We cannot rely on the courts alone to defend our religious liberty."
Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) said, "I applaud the Supreme Court’s decision to protect the religious freedom of all Americans, both individually and collectively.
The notion that religious freedom belongs only to some, and even then only in private, defies our nation's traditions, our laws, and our Constitution.
And as the Supreme Court rightfully said today, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act could not have been clearer in saying religious liberty of all Americans must be equally protected and not unnecessarily burdened."
Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-Minn) said, "I am extremely encouraged by today’s Supreme Court decision to uphold the religious liberty rights of the Green family of Hobby Lobby."
Forbes reported that following the ruling in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby, "the Supreme Court vacated the judgment against Eden Foods and sent the case back to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit for further consideration."
On November 6, 2015 the Supreme Court of the United States decided it will hear arguments for the case of Zubik v. Burwell combined with 6 other challenges [including Priests for Life v. Burwell, Southern Nazarene University v. Burwell, Geneva College v. Burwell, Roman Catholic Archbishop of Washington v. Burwell,East Texas Baptist University v. Burwell, Little Sisters of the Poor Home for the Aged v. Burwell] to the Contraceptive mandate of Obamacare.
On July 3, 2014, the Supreme Court granted a temporary exemption to the approach it suggested as a less restrictive alternative in Hobby Lobby, where the plaintiffs would send a form (EBSA Form 700) to its insurance issuer, which would pay for the contraception.
In an unsigned emergency injunction for Wheaton College in Illinois, the court said that instead of notifying its insurance issuer, Wheaton can notify the government.
Once notified, the government should notify the issuer.
Wheaton believed that by transferring the obligation to cover contraceptives to its insurance issuer, it was triggering that obligation.
The emergency injunction does not constitute a ruling on the merits of Wheaton's religious objection.
The court said "Nothing in this interim order affects the ability of the applicant’s employees and students to obtain, without cost, the full range of FDA approved contraceptives."
In a 15-page dissent joined by the other two women on the court, Justice Sotomayor criticized the majority's reasoning: "Wheaton’s application comes nowhere near the high bar necessary to warrant an emergency injunction from this court...The court’s actions in this case create unnecessary costs and layers of bureaucracy, and they ignore a simple truth: The government must be allowed to handle the basic tasks of public administration in a manner that comports with common sense."
In January, the Supreme Court granted a similar temporary injunction to the Little Sisters of the Poor.
In dueling commentaries between regular SCOTUSblog contributor Marty Lederman and co-founder Tom Goldstein, Lederman argued that only Form 700 can require an insurance provider to pay for contraception coverage.
Goldstein argued that an existing regulation allows the government to specify an alternative to Form 700.
He pointed out that "the Court didn't accept Wheaton's most aggressive argument" that it cannot be required to do anything.
He said that Justice Kennedy's concurrence is controlling and makes clear that the RFRA is not violated by requiring Wheaton to notify the government.
Although the court stated clearly that the decision is limited to the contraceptive mandate (Syllabus p.&nbsp;4-5), the ruling is seen to have consequences extending far beyond contraception.
Walter Dellinger, former acting solicitor general said, "for the first time, commercial enterprises could successfully claim religious exemptions from laws that govern everyone else."
Fifteen states had filed a brief arguing that businesses would be able to deny coverage for transfusions, stem cell treatments, and psychiatric care.
In line with the dissenting opinion, The American Prospect asked, "[W]ill the taxpayers have to send a check to employees if employers feel that minimum wage laws violate their religious beliefs?"
Jonathan Rauch, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said that objections to paying health benefits for same-sex spouses will get traction.
The National Gay and Lesbian Task Force (NGLT) and the National Center for Lesbian Rights withdrew their support for the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA) passed by the Senate, saying that its religious exemptions would allow companies to fire or refuse to hire LGBT workers in light of the Hobby Lobby ruling.
NGLT executive director Rea Carey said, "We do not take this move lightly.
We’ve been pushing for this bill for 20 years."
Such concerns are focused on the court's application of the federal RFRA law and were driven by national controversy over a state RFRA amendment bill in Arizona.
Douglas Laycock, law professor at the University of Virginia, said, "The whole secular left has decided" that RFRA laws “are very dangerous because they care so much more about the contraception cases and gay rights."
He said RFRA laws are mischaracterized because they do not dictate outcomes favoring religious objectors, they only require courts to use the highest standard of scrutiny on any law challenged.
Mark Kernes, Senior Editor and Chief Legal Analyst for AVN magazine stated in an op-ed piece, "If the Hobby Lobby decision supports the 'right' of companies not to make available birth control that will prevent women from "catching" a pregnancy, what's to keep those same religious companies from arguing that providing access to PrEP drugs like Truvada, which help prevent gays (and, admittedly, everyone) from catching HIV shouldn't similarly be excluded from their health plans?"
Marcia Greenberger, co-president of the National Women's Law Center, said that the Supreme Court has never ruled that companies have religious beliefs and that "it has never held that religious exercise provides a license to harm others, or violate the rights of third parties."
Louise Melling, ACLU deputy legal director, said religious freedom "gives us all the right to hold our beliefs, but it doesn’t give you the right to impose your beliefs on others, to discriminate against others."
The editorial board of The New York Times wrote that the decision "swept aside accepted principles of corporate law and religious liberty to grant owners of closely held, for-profit companies an unprecedented right to impose their religious views on employees."
A Fox News columnist wrote, "[W]ith all of the debate about the religious beliefs of the Hobby Lobby owners, what about the religious beliefs of their employees?
They are just as important, and should not be trampled upon."
The director of the United Church of Christ’s Washington, D.C. office, said that the ruling "may embolden private employers to claim religious objections to particular health care services, in effect forcing their own religious views upon their employees."
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said, "It’s the first time that our court has said that a closely-held corporation has the rights of a person when it comes to religious freedom, which means that the…corporation's employers can impose their religious beliefs on their employees."
The Center for American Progress said that the ruling "moves in the direction this court has been moving already, which is talking about corporate personhood—really treating corporations like people, saying that the corporation has a religion itself and that should be imposed on its employees."
Interfaith Alliance leader Rev.
Welton Gaddy said, "The First Amendment is at its best when it is used to protect the rights of minorities from the whims of the powerful.
Today’s decision, which gives the powerful the right to force their religious beliefs on those around them, is a far cry from the best traditions of religious freedom."
Scholars on the other side (including some on the left) disagree, arguing that companies owned and run by liberals will likewise benefit from the freedom to operate according to their conscience or values - which has not been viewed as "imposing" views, because people routinely choose whom to associate with based on philosophical compatibility.
New York Times editor Dorothy J. Samuels invoked the cautionary adage "be careful what you wish for", speculating that "if owners indicate that they are not entirely separate from their corporation—by denying corporation employees' birth control coverage based on their personal religious beliefs—the case could be made in future state-court litigation that they have waived their right to be shielded from responsibility for corporate financial liabilities."
The dean of the UC Irvine School of Law, Erwin Chemerinsky, said, "The liabilities of the corporation are not attributed to the owners, so why should the owners be able to attribute their beliefs to the company?"
Several legal scholars wrote an amicus brief to the Supreme Court for this case arguing this danger, while scholars on the other side counter that incorporated non-profit organizations enjoy liability protection despite their activities based on religious or other values/conscience-based causes.
Secularism is the principle of the separation of government institutions and persons mandated to represent the state from religious institutions and religious dignitaries.
One manifestation of secularism is asserting the right to be free from religious rule and teachings, or, in a state declared to be neutral on matters of belief, from the imposition by government of religion or religious practices upon its people.
Another manifestation of secularism is the view that public activities and decisions, especially political ones, should be uninfluenced by religious beliefs and/or practices.
Secularism draws its intellectual roots from Greek and Roman philosophers such as Epicurus and Marcus Aurelius; from Enlightenment thinkers such as John Locke, Denis Diderot, Voltaire, Baruch Spinoza, James Madison, Thomas Jefferson, and Thomas Paine; and from more recent freethinkers and atheists such as Robert Ingersoll and Bertrand Russell.
The purposes and arguments in support of secularism vary widely.
In European laicism, it has been argued that secularism is a movement toward modernization, and away from traditional religious values (also known as secularization).
This type of secularism, on a social or philosophical level, has often occurred while maintaining an official state church or other state support of religion.
In the United States, some argue that state secularism has served to a greater extent to protect religion and the religious from governmental interference, while secularism on a social level is less prevalent.
Within countries as well, differing political movements support secularism for varying reasons.
The term "secularism" was first used by the British writer George Jacob Holyoake in 1851.
Although the term was new, the general notions of freethought on which it was based had existed throughout history.
Holyoake invented the term "secularism" to describe his views of promoting a social order separate from religion, without actively dismissing or criticizing religious belief.
An agnostic himself, Holyoake argued that "Secularism is not an argument against Christianity, it is one independent of it.
It does not question the pretensions of Christianity; it advances others.
Secularism does not say there is no light or guidance elsewhere, but maintains that there is light and guidance in secular truth, whose conditions and sanctions exist independently, and act forever.
Secular knowledge is manifestly that kind of knowledge which is founded in this life, which relates to the conduct of this life, conduces to the welfare of this life, and is capable of being tested by the experience of this life."
Barry Kosmin of the Institute for the Study of Secularism in Society and Culture breaks modern secularism into two types: hard and soft secularism.
According to Kosmin, "the hard secularist considers religious propositions to be epistemologically illegitimate, warranted by neither reason nor experience."
However, in the view of soft secularism, "the attainment of absolute truth was impossible and therefore skepticism and tolerance should be the principle and overriding values in the discussion of science and religion."
In political terms, secularism is a movement towards the separation of religion and government (often termed the separation of church and state).
This can refer to reducing ties between a government and a state religion, replacing laws based on scripture (such as Halakha and Sharia law) with civil laws, and eliminating discrimination on the basis of religion.
This is said to add to democracy by protecting the rights of religious minorities.
Other scholars, such as Jacques Berlinerblau of the Program for Jewish Civilization at Georgetown University, have argued separation of church and state is but one possible strategy to be deployed by secular governments.
What all secular governments, from the democratic to the authoritarian, share is a concern about relations between church and state.
Each secular government may find its own unique policy prescriptions for dealing with that concern (separation being but one of those possible policies.
French models in which the state carefully monitors and regulates the church being another) Maharaja Ranjeet Singh of the Sikh empire of the first half 19th century successfully established a secular rule in the Punjab.
This secular rule allowed members of all races and religions to be respected and to participate without discrimination in Ranjeet Singh darbar and he had Sikh, a Muslim and a Hindu representatives heading the darbar.
Ranjit Singh also extensively funded education, religion, and arts of various different religions and languages.
Secularism is often associated with the Age of Enlightenment in Europe and plays a major role in Western society.
The principles, but not necessarily practices, of separation of church and state in the United States and Laïcité in France draw heavily on secularism.
Secular states also existed in the Islamic world during the Middle Ages (see Islam and secularism).
Due in part to the belief in the separation of church and state, secularists tend to prefer that politicians make decisions for secular rather than religious reasons.
In this respect, policy decisions pertaining to topics like abortion, contraception, embryonic stem cell research, same-sex marriage, and sex education are prominently focused upon by American secularist organizations such as the Center for Inquiry.
Most major religions accept the primacy of the rules of secular, democratic society but may still seek to influence political decisions or achieve specific privileges or influence through church-state agreements such as a concordat.
Many Christians support a secular state, and may acknowledge that the conception has support in Biblical teachings, particularly the statement of Jesus in the Book of Luke: "Then give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's.".
However, some Christian fundamentalists (notably in the United States) oppose secularism, often claiming that there is a "radical secularist" ideology being adopted in current days and see secularism as a threat to "Christian rights" and national security.
The most significant forces of religious fundamentalism in the contemporary world are Fundamentalist Christianity and Fundamentalist Islam.
At the same time, one significant stream of secularism has come from religious minorities who see governmental and political secularism as integral to preserving equal rights.
Some of the well known states that are often considered "constitutionally secular" are USA, France, Mexico South Korea, and Turkey although none of these nations have identical forms of governance.
In studies of religion, modern democracies are generally recognized as secular.
This is due to the near-complete freedom of religion (beliefs on religion generally are not subject to legal or social sanctions), and the lack of authority of religious leaders over political decisions.
Nevertheless, religious beliefs are widely considered a relevant part of the political discourse in many of these countries.
This contrasts with other Western countries where religious references are generally considered out-of-place in mainstream politics.
The aspirations of a secular society could characterize a secular society as one which: Positive Ideals behind the secular society: Modern sociology has, since Max Weber, often been preoccupied with the problem of authority in secularized societies and with secularization as a sociological or historical process.
Twentieth-century scholars whose work has contributed to the understanding of these matters include Carl L. Becker, Karl Löwith, Hans Blumenberg, M. H. Abrams, Peter L. Berger, Paul Bénichou and D. L. Munby, among others.
Some societies become increasingly secular as the result of social processes, rather than through the actions of a dedicated secular movement; this process is known as secularization.
George Holyoake's 1896 publication English Secularism defines secularism as: <blockquote> Secularism is a code of duty pertaining to this life, founded on considerations purely human, and intended mainly for those who find theology indefinite or inadequate, unreliable or unbelievable.
Its essential principles are three: (1) The improvement of this life by material means.
(2) That science is the available Providence of man.
(3) That it is good to do good.
Whether there be other good or not, the good of the present life is good, and it is good to seek that good.< Holyoake held that secularism and secular ethics should take no interest at all in religious questions (as they were irrelevant), and was thus to be distinguished from strong freethought and atheism.
In this he disagreed with Charles Bradlaugh, and the disagreement split the secularist movement between those who argued that anti-religious movements and activism was not necessary or desirable and those who argued that it was.
Contemporary ethical debate is often described as "secular", with the work of Derek Parfit and Peter Singer, and even the whole field of contemporary bioethics, having been described or self-described as explicitly secular or non-religious.
It has been argued that the definition of secularism has frequently been misinterpreted.
In a 2012 Huffington Post article titled Secularism Is Not Atheism, Jacques Berlinerblau, Director of the Program for Jewish Civilization at the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, wrote that "Secularism must be the most misunderstood and mangled ism in the American political lexicon.
Commentators on the right and the left routinely equate it with Stalinism, Nazism and Socialism, among other dreaded isms.
In the United States, of late, another false equation has emerged.
That would be the groundless association of secularism with atheism.
The religious right has profitably promulgated this misconception at least since the 1970s."
Secularist website Concordat Watch also backed the notion that secularism has at times been mistaken as a word that reflects one's personal religious views, stating that "Some opponents of church-state separation redefine “secularism” as “state neutrality” to allow their group, among others, to get state funding.
Others try to discredit it by conflating “secularism” with “atheism”.
But it's a political, rather than a religious doctrine and its purpose is to help level the playing field in order to give a better chance for human rights."
Groups such as the National Secular Society (United Kingdom) and Americans United campaign for secularism are often supported by Humanists.
In 2005, the National Secular Society held the inaugural "Secularist of the Year" awards ceremony.
Its first winner was Maryam Namazie, of the Worker-Communist Party of Iran.
And of the Council of Ex-Muslims of Britain which aims to break the taboo that comes with renouncing Islam and to oppose apostasy laws and political Islam.
The Scottish Secular Society is active in Scotland and is currently focused on the role of religion in education.
In 2013 it raised a petition at the Scottish Parliament to have the Education (Scotland) Act 1980 changed so that parents will have to make a positive choice to opt in to Religious Observance.
Another secularist organization is the Secular Coalition for America.
The Secular Coalition for America lobbies and advocates for separation of church and state as well as the acceptance and inclusion of Secular Americans in American life and public policy.
While Secular Coalition for America is linked to many secular humanistic organizations and many secular humanists support it, as with the Secular Society, some non-humanists support it.
Local organizations work to raise the profile of secularism in their communities and tend to include secularists, freethinkers, atheists, agnostics, and humanists under their organizational umbrella.
Student organizations, such as the Toronto Secular Alliance, try to popularize nontheism and secularism on campus.
The Secular Student Alliance is an educational nonprofit that organizes and aids such high school and college secular student groups.
In Turkey, the most prominent and active secularist organization is Atatürk Thought Association (ADD), which is credited for organizing the Republic Protests – demonstrations in the four largest cities in Turkey in 2007, where over 2 million people, mostly women, defended their concern in and support of secularist principles introduced by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk.
Leicester Secular Society founded in 1851 is the world's oldest secular society.
See also the references list in the article on secularization
Emile Jean Pin (1921-2006) was a French Jesuit priest, social activist, and scholar.
He was known for his public opposition to the Catholic Church's attempts to block the legalization of divorce in Italy.
Pin entered the Jesuit order at the age of 16.
Two years later, World War II broke out and, as a young Jesuit student Pin smuggled documents for the Resistance.
He also served as an officer in the French Labor Service.Love Never Dies: How to Reconnect and Make Peace with the Deceased, Jamie Turndorf, (California: Hay House, 2014)</ref> Pin received a Master's degree in Economics and Political Science from the University of Paris (1949).
In 1950, he completed a Master's in Sociology from the Sorbonne, a Master's degree in Law and Economics (Law Degree) from the Faculte de Droit in Paris and a Diplome de l'Institut de Sciences Politiques de Paris.
He received a Licentiate in Theology from the University of Lyon in 1954.
He received a Doctor of Letters (Ph.D. in Sociology) from the University of Lyon in 1956 and a Post-Doctoral Fellowship in Sociology from the University of Chicago (1957-1958).
His doctoral dissertation, "Practique Religieuse et Classes Sociales," a study of the social correlates of various religious practices in a parish of the City of Lyon, came to the attention of Pope Paul VI, who called Pin to Rome to serve as professor of religious sociology and social classes at the Pontifical Gregorian University.
Pin founded and directed the International Center for Social Research (CIRIS) at the Pontifical Gregorian University, Rome, the Vatican's first and only international social research center.
Pin was one of the pioneers in the field of Liberation Theology.
His books, The Church and the Latin-American Revolution, Les Classes Sociales, Elementos Para Una Sociologia del Catolicismo Latino-Americano and Introduction a l'Etude Sociologique des Paroisse Catholique are classics in the field of Liberation Theology.
Pin also lectured on Liberation Theology at Ivan Illich's Center for Intercultural Formation in Cuernavaca, Mexico and Petropolis, Brazil during 1962-1970.
Out of CIRIS, Pin conducted research to determine whether the church was actually meeting the needs of the faithful.
He was the first to introduce a method of social research in which he conducted face-to-face interviews with a representative sample of the study population.
Pin's methods became standard in social research.
His book The Religiosity of the Romans debunked many popular beliefs about Catholics and their religious needs and practices.
Pin conducted the worldwide survey of the Jesuit order and was the Secretary General of the International Conference of Religious Sociology.
In the early 70s, Pin was laicized by Pope Paul VI and appointed by Vassar College to serve as full professor and chair of the Department of Sociology until 1990.
To mark his new identity, he began using his middle name, Jean, as his first name.
He completed a Master of Social Work at Fordham University in 1984.
In his last professional position, he served as a psychotherapist and social advocate for Catholic Charities.
In 1992, he filed an unsuccessful lawsuit against Vassar, citing age discrimination based on their policy of requiring professors to retire at age 70.
After he was laicized, Pin was married to a German woman for ten years.
He was then married for 27 years to Jamie Turndorf until his death.
Together, they co-authored The Pleasure of Your Company: A Socio-Psychological Analysis of Modern Sociability.
On September 17, 2006, Pin died of a bee sting while traveling with his wife in Italy.
John Corrigan "Jonathan" Wells (born 1942) is an American molecular biologist, author and advocate of intelligent design.
Wells joined the Unification Church in 1974, and subsequently wrote that the teachings of church founder Sun Myung Moon, his own studies at the Unification Theological Seminary and his prayers convinced him to devote his life to "destroying Darwinism."
The term Darwinism is often used by intelligent design proponents to refer to the scientific consensus on evolution.
He gained a PhD in religious studies at Yale University in 1986, then became Director of the Unification Church’s inter-religious outreach organization in New York City.
In 1989, he studied at the University of California, Berkeley, where he earned a PhD in molecular and cellular biology in 1994.
He became a member of several scientific associations and has published in academic journals.
In his book Icons of Evolution: Science or Myth?
(2000), Wells argues that a number of examples used to illustrate biology textbooks were grossly exaggerated, distorted truth, or were patently false.
Wells said that this shows that evolution conflicts with the evidence, and so argued against its teaching in public education.
Some reviewers of Icons of Evolution have said that Wells misquoted experts cited as sources and took minor issues out of context, basing his argument on a flawed syllogism.
Wells's views on evolution have been rejected by the scientific community.
Wells was born in New York City in 1942 and grew up in New Jersey, and was brought up as a Protestant Christian.
He studied geology at Princeton University, where he dropped out in his junior year.
Following a brief stint as a taxi driver, he was drafted into the United States Army and spent two years serving in Germany.
After his discharge in 1966, he attended University of California, Berkeley, where he publicly refused to report for reserve duty.
This resulted in him being arrested and being incarcerated for eighteen months at the Leavenworth military prison.
Upon his release, Wells returned to Berkeley where he completed his studies with a major in geology and physics and a minor in biology.
In 1974, Wells joined the Unification Church of the United States.
He graduated from the church's Unification Theological Seminary in 1978 with a master's degree in religious education.
Wells continued his studies at Yale University, earning a PhD in religious studies in 1986, focusing on historical reactions to Darwinism.
During this time he wrote extensively on Unification theology and taught at the Unification Theological Seminary.
Wells was on the Board of Trustees of the Unification Theological Seminary until resigning in 1997 to return to teaching.
He also acted as the director of the International Religious Foundation, a Unification Church affiliated organization which sponsors interdenominational conferences.
Wells has written on the subject of marriage within the Unification Church and has been called a "Unification Church marriage expert" by church sources.
Wells defended Unification Church theology against what he said were unfair criticisms made in 1977 by the National Council of Churches.
In 1994, Wells earned another PhD in molecular and cellular biology at UC Berkeley.
After receiving his doctorate, he worked at a position he described as "a post-doctoral research biologist at Berkeley, writing articles critical of Darwinism."
Shortly after that Wells joined former UC Berkeley law professor Phillip E. Johnson, father of the intelligent design movement, at the Discovery Institute.
He now serves as a fellow at the Discovery Institute's Center for Science and Culture, the hub of the intelligent design movement, and at the International Society for Complexity, Information, and Design, which also promotes intelligent design.
Of his student days at Unification Theological Seminary (1976–78), Wells said, "One of the things that Father [Reverend Sun Myung Moon] advised us to do at UTS was to pray to seek God's plan for our lives."
He later described that plan: "To defend and articulate Unification theology especially in relation to Darwinian evolution."
Wells stated that his religious doctoral studies at Yale, which were paid for by the Unification Church, focused on the "root of the conflict between Darwinian evolution and Christian doctrine" and encompassed the whole of Christian theology within a focus of Darwinian controversies.
Wells said that "destroying Darwinism" was his motive for studying Christian theology at Yale and going on to seek his second PhD at Berkeley, studying biology and in particular embryology: Wells's statement and others like it are viewed by the scientific community as evidence that Wells lacks proper scientific objectivity and mischaracterizes evolution by ignoring and misrepresenting the evidence supporting it while pursuing an agenda promoting notions supporting his religious beliefs in its place.
He has written articles for the Discovery Institute, WorldNetDaily, Origins & Design, and other sympathetic publications attacking evolution and defending intelligent design.
In 1997, he presented a paper entitled "Evolution by Design" at the Unification Church sponsored International Conference on the Unity of the Sciences in Washington, D.C.
In 1999, Wells debated with the New Mexicans for Science and Reason.
He was one of the contributors to Natural History magazine's 2002 debate between intelligent design advocates and evolution supporters.
In 2005, he debated Massimo Pigliucci on the PBS talk show Uncommon Knowledge.
Pigliucci said that Wells "clearly lied" during his debates and misrepresented his agenda and science, as well as not understanding some of the theories he tried to attack.
Wells is one of the signatories of the Discovery Institute's "A Scientific Dissent From Darwinism," a petition which the intelligent design movement uses to promote intelligent design by attempting to cast doubt on evolution.
He is also the author of "Ten questions to ask your biology teacher about evolution" for high school students, which is published by the Discovery Institute.
The National Center for Science Education has issued a list of answers to the questions.
In 2005, Wells participated in the Kansas evolution hearings, which were boycotted by mainstream scientists.
Prior to the evolution hearings, in December 2000 after the Pratt County, Kansas, school board revised its tenth-grade biology curriculum at the urging of intelligent design proponents to include material that encourages students to question the theory of evolution, The Pratt Tribune published a letter from Jerry Coyne challenging Wells's characterization in an article of his work on peppered moths, saying that his article appended to the Pratt standards was misused and being mischaracterized: In 2006, Wells published his second major book, The Politically Incorrect Guide to Darwinism and Intelligent Design, which was part of a series published by Regnery Publishing.
The book was praised by Tom Bethell, author of The Politically Incorrect Guide to Science, but was described by Dr. Reed A. Cartwright of The Panda's Thumb weblog as being "not only politically incorrect but incorrect in most other ways as well: scientifically, logically, historically, legally, academically, and morally."
Cartwright also edited a chapter-by-chapter critique of the book.
A quote from the book linking evolution to eugenics, abortion and racism appeared on Starbucks paper cups in 2007.
In 1991, Wells and his mentor Phillip E. Johnson signed an open letter which said in full: Wells and Johnson have been criticized, along with others, for their questioning of the scientific and medical consensus that HIV causes AIDS.
In the Washington University Law Review, critics Matthew J. Brauer, Barbara Forrest, and Steven G. Gey faulted Wells, Johnson, and others for denying the HIV/AIDS connection and promoting denialism via a petition designed to garner publicity but without any scientific support.
CHARLES HODGE'S CRITIQUE OF DARWINISM: THE ARGUMENT TO DESIGN (EVOLUTION, THEOLOGY).
Dissertation, Yale University, 265 pages.
A confocal microscopy study of microtubule arrays involved in cortical rotation during the first cell cycle of Xenopus embryos.
Dissertation, University of California, Berkeley, 124 pages.
The Rev.
William O'Malley, S.J.
(born August 18, 1931) is an American author and actor.
He was born in Buffalo NY and attended Canisus High school there.
He graduated from the College of the Holy Cross in 1953.
He taught theology, AP English and later an elective called The Problem of God/Morality/Marriage at Fordham Preparatory School in the Bronx until June 2012.
He was an associate professor of theology at Fordham University.
O'Malley is now a professor of theology and the humanities at Seattle University.
O'Malley is best known for his portrayal of Father Dyer in The Exorcist, for which he was also a technical advisor.
According to one source, he was the first Catholic priest to portray a priest in a commercial motion picture.
He has also appeared in the E!
True Hollywood Story of the Curse of The Exorcist.
He has directed 99 plays and musicals with students and adults.
As an author, O'Malley has published 37 books, including Choosing to Be Catholic, Why Be Catholic?, , God: The Oldest Question, Meeting the Living God, Building Your Own Conscience, and The Fifth Week.
His book, Help My Unbelief, won a Catholic Book Award in 2009.
O'Malley graduated on June 19, 1963.
Before heading to Fordham, O'Malley taught AP English and theology for 22 years at McQuaid Jesuit High School in Rochester, New York.Bob McCabe, The exorcist: Out of the shadows: the full story of the film, pp.
39-40 (Omnibus Press, 1999) ISBN 978-0-7119-7509-5.
</ref> He also directed the school's musical and drama productions.
On stage in Rochester he appeared as Jim, the gentleman caller, in a production of The Glass Menagerie at the Theater at the Tracks  and as the cleric in the Rochester Community Players production of The Power and the Glory, by Graham Greene.
In 1990, O'Malley received an honorary doctorate in humane letters from Le Moyne College in 2007, the F. Sadlier Dinger Award from educational publisher William H. Sadlier, Inc. in recognition of his outstanding contributions to the ministry of religious education in America, for which he received three Best Article Awards from the Catholic Press Association.
Adi Dharam or ādi dharam (<span dir="ltr" lang="hi">Hindi</span> आदि धरम) (literal meaning the ancient or the root (Ādi) religion (Dharam) ) refers to the tribal religion or the traditional religion or the indigenous religion or the Adivasi (Hindi for original settlers) religion of the indigenous peoples of India.
It is an umbrella term used to denote the religion of indigenous peoples of India.
The term 'Adi Dharam' was made popular by the tribal scholar and philosopher Ram Dayal Munda when he sought to unite the ancestoral beliefs of the all the indigenous people of India In the pre-Independence British era, the Indian government had recognized the distinctiveness of the religious beliefs of the Adivasi or the tribal people of India and had categorized it under the term 'Animism'.
The term Animism was re-purposed and made popular by the works of British anthropologist Sir Edward Tylor.
Census records as early as 1871 and various ethnographic books by the Britishers show that a large chunk of the tribal population were followers of their traditional religion (recognized as Animism).
The term 'Animism' was included in the census till 1931 after which, due to unknown reasons, its use was discontinued (some records show that Animism was there in the 1951 census).
The post-Independence Indian Government abolished all the terms signifying the distinctiveness of the religious beliefs of the tribal people.
However, tribal religious movements that intended to safeguard the belief system and identity of the tribals continued at a regional level like the Donyi-Polo movement, Gondi movement, Khasi religion, Sanamahi movement, Sari Dharam movement, Sarna movement etc., but a national level movement encompassing all the tribals was lacking.
The early post-Independence literate tribals did feel a need for a national level movement in order to safeguard the religious beliefs of the tribals.
The term 'Adi-Dharam' to denote nationally the belief system of the tribals was very much used among the literate tribals in the early post independence era as is evident from Shri Kartik Oraon's, (a tribal leader and the then State Minister of Aviation and Communication, Govt.
of India) book Bees Varsh ki Kaali Raat (1970s) where he uses the word 'Adi Dharm' to denote the belief system of the tribals nationally.
The issue of the national religious identity of the tribals was powerfully reignited when in 2000, Ram Dayal Munda wrote a paper 'Adi-Dharam: Religious Beliefs of the Adivasis of India'.
In the paper he argued for the distinctiveness of the belief system of the tribals and proposed that the term 'Adi Dharam' along with the regional term (Donyi-Polo, Gondi, Sanamahi, Sari, Sarna etc.
in brackets) be included in the census survey which would include all the tribals who are still following their traditional belief system.
This national identity, according to him, "will strengthen their (the tribals') solidarity, which will be helpful for their security and progress".
Ram Dayal Munda emphasized the following points which are common to all the tribal people of India as well as of the whole world, regarding their religious beliefs:-.
According to him, in the Adivasi (Tribal) belief system The different tribal religions as per the 2001 census reports of Government of India on 'Other Religions and Persuasions' are:-
Thomas Buford Maston was a Christian ethicist and writer.
He is the namesake of the T. B. Maston Foundation, which was begun by Dr. A. Jase Jones (1913-2007), who received his Th.D.
in Christian Ethics under Dr. Maston.
Born of humble beginnings in Jefferson County, Tennessee, he also spent his childhood in College Corner, Ohio, and Fountain City, Tennessee.
In 1916 he enrolled in Carson-Newman College.
In 1920, he married Essie Mae McDonald, and enrolled in Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary, in Fort Worth, Texas where he earned a Master of Religious Education.
He later earnd the first Doctor of Religious Education degree from Southwestern in 1925, then an M.A.
from Texas Christian University in 1927.
In 1932 he entered Yale University where he majored in Christian ethics under Richard Niebuhr, and received a Ph.D. in 1939.
He returned to Southwestern seminary where he developed a graduate Doctor of Theology degree in Christian Ethics.
Through his efforts and example, Christian ethics became a field of study in every Baptist seminary, Christian Life Commissions became common nationally, and race relations, sensitivity to the poor, and women's rights in the Southern Baptist Convention improved as a result.
Mastin wrote twenty-seven books on ethics.
He was licensed to preach but was never was ordained.
He was a layman and deacon at Gambrell Street Baptist Church in Fort Worth.
The Most Rev.
Andrew Oliver Kumarage (16 January 1934 – 21 April 2012), (BDiv, DipRE), was the third Bishop of Kurunegala, Sri Lanka.
Andrew Kumarage was born on 16 January 1934, the eldest child in a family of five.
His father, Stephen, was a teacher and his mother, Mary, a nurse, who both worked as lay ministers for the Church of Ceylon.
Kumarage was identified by the then Bishop of Kurunegala, Lakdasa De Mel, as a prospective leader for the Church and an early candidate for ordination.
In 1954 he went to study theology at Bishop’s College, Calcutta in India and after four years of study he received a degree of Bachelor of Divinity.
In 1958 Kumarage returned to Kurunegala and was subsequently made a Deacon on 1 May that year.
On 23 May 1959 he was ordained as a priest in the Diocese of Kurunagala.
Kumarage was an inaugural faculty member at the Theological College of Lanka.
He was also selected as the Chairperson of the Board of Governors at Trinity College, Kandy and served on the Governing Body of the CMS Schools.
Kumarage subsequently trained at the Westhill College of Education in Birmingham, England, where he completed a Diploma of Religious Education.
Upon his return to Sri Lanka he was made responsible for Religious Education in the Diocese of Kurungala.
On 6 May 1984 he was consecrated as the third Bishop of Kurunegala, succeeding Bishop Lakshman Wickremasinghe.
After 16 years he retired from the position in 2000.
In the years following his retirement he wrote and published a book on the Disciples of Jesus and later compiled a Personal Book of Prayers for Clergy.
He was also appointed as the Chair of the Board of Management of the Ecumenical Institute for Study and Dialogue and remained a member of the EISD Board until his death.
Kumarage died on 21 April 2012 at the age of 78.
Jesse Lee Cuninggim (1870–unknown) was an American Methodist clergyman and university professor and administrator.
After serving as Head of the Department of Religious Education at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas, he served as the President of Scarritt College for Christian Workers, which he moved from Kansas City, Missouri to Nashville, Tennessee.
Jessee Lee Cuninggim was born in 1870 in North Carolina.
He received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a Master's degree from the University of Chicago.
He also studied theology at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee.
Cuninggim served as Head of the Department of Religious Education at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas.
He later received an honorary Doctor of Divinity from SMU.
Cuninggim then served as the President of Scarritt College for Christian Workers, then known as the Scarritt Bible and Training School, a girl's missionary seminary affiliated with the Methodist Episcopal Church, South in Kansas City, Missouri.
In 1923, he moved it to Nashville, Tennessee, on the edge of Vanderbilt University and Peabody College, and renamed it Scarritt College.
His goal was to increase its academic focus.
Later, he also served as Director of the Department of Ministerial Supply and Training at Vanderbilt University and taught Religion in Wesley Hall.
In 1936, Cuninggim served on the Board of Trustees of Duke University.
Cuninggim married to Maud Lillian Merrimon Cuninggim on June 29, 1910 at the Edenton Street United Methodist Church in Raleigh, North Carolina.
The Books of Homilies (1547, 1562, and 1571) are two books of thirty-three sermons developing the reformed doctrines of the Church of England in greater depth and detail than in the Thirty-Nine Articles of Religion.
The title of the collection is Certain Sermons or Homilies Appointed to Be Read in Churches.
During the reign of Edward VI and later during the reign of Elizabeth I, Thomas Cranmer and other English reformers saw the need for local congregations to be taught Christian theology and practice.
Before the English Reformation, the liturgy was conducted entirely in Latin, to which the common people listened passively except twice a year during Communion, when only the consecrated bread was administered.
Since parsons, vicars and curates often lacked the education and experience needed to write sermons and were often unfamiliar with Reformed doctrine, scholars and bishops wrote out a collection of sermons for them, which were appointed to be read each Sunday and holy day.
The reading of the homilies in church is still mandated under Article XXXV of the Thirty-Nine Articles.
Many of the sermons are straightforward exhortations to read scripture daily and lead a life of prayer and faith in Jesus Christ; the other works are lengthy scholarly treatises intended to inform church leaders in theology, church history, the fall of the Byzantine Empire and the heresies of the Roman Catholic Church.
Each homily is heavily annotated with references to holy scripture, the Church Fathers and other primary sources.
The longest homily is the second of the second book, "On Peril of Idolatry".
Running about 120 printed pages in several parts, it describes the history of what are deemed to be false religious practices, each of which it claims ultimately led to idolatrous observances.
First among these was the Iconoclastic Controversy which caused a schism between the Western and Eastern churches and ultimately the hostility of Rome to those parts of Christendom not under papal authority.
The homilies also contain many historical spellings, based on the Vulgate and Septuagint, of Biblical names such as Noe for Noah and Esay for Isaiah.
They also contain many amusing instances of historical terms, such as "mummish massing", meaning comical mime-show to characterise the lengthy all-Latin service which the people watched but could not participate in.
The 'Former Book' of homilies contains twelve sermons and was mainly written by Cranmer.
They focus strongly upon the character of God and Justification by Faith and were fully published by 1547.
Louis Marin (22 May 1931 – 29 October 1992) was a French philosopher, historian, semiotician and art critic.
He was born in La Tronche, France.
He is usually referred to as a French post-structuralistic thinker.
He attended the University of Paris, Sorbonne and graduated with a Licence in Philosophy in 1952.
His degree was followed in 1953 with an Agrégé in Philosophy and with a Docteur d'Etat in 1973.
Marin taught at the University of Nanterre, Paris from 1967 to 1970, the University of California, San Diego from 1970 to 1974, Johns Hopkins University from 1974 to 1977, and finally at the École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales in Paris from 1977 to 1992.
He was also an Associate of the Humanities Center at Johns Hopkins University from 1985 until his death in 1992 in Paris.
Marin was widely known for his work in a variety of areas: linguistics, semiotics, theology, philosophy, anthropology, rhetoric, art and institutional history and literary theory.
Throughout his career, Marin's main intellectual focus was seventeenth-century French literature, particularly the works of Blaise Pascal, Perrault, Nicolas Poussin and Philippe de Champaigne.
In addition, he published numerous articles on the visual arts and religious texts.
Marin has written on the following topics: Louis Marin has a lesser reputation than some of his contemporaries and friends, such as Jacques Derrida, Jean-François Lyotard and Michel de Certeau.
Still, his classes and his work have exerted a profound influence on certain historians (Christian Jouhaud), art historians (Daniel Arasse), and literary historians (Hélène Merlin-Kajman, Joan DeJean).
Babylonian religion is the religious practice of Babylonia.
Babylonian mythology was greatly influenced by their Sumerian counterparts, and was written on clay tablets inscribed with the cuneiform script derived from Sumerian cuneiform.
The myths were usually either written in Sumerian or Akkadian.
Some Babylonian texts were translations into Akkadian from the Sumerian language of earlier texts, although the names of some deities were changed in Babylonian texts.
Many of the stories of the Tanakh are believed to have been based on, influenced by, or inspired by the legendary mythological past of the Near East.
Babylonian mythology is a set of stories depicting the activities of Babylonian deities, heroes, and mythological creatures.
These stories served many social, political, ceremonial purposes, and at times tried to explain natural phenomena.
Chaldean religion was largely centered on civilization.
Babylonian mythology was greatly influenced by their Sumerian counterparts, and was written on clay tablets inscribed with the cuneiform script derived from sumerian cuneiform.
The myths were usually either written in Sumerian or Akkadian.
Some Babylonian texts were even translations into Akkadian from the Sumerian language of earlier texts, though the names of some deities were changed in Babylonian texts.
Many Babylonian deities, myths and religious writings are singular to that culture; for example, the uniquely Babylonian deity, Marduk, replaced Enlil as the head of the mythological pantheon.
The Enûma Eliš, a creation myth epic was an original Babylonian work.
Tablet fragments from the Neo-Babylonian period describe a series of festival days celebrating the New Year.
The Festival began on the first day of the first Babylonian month, Nisannu, roughly corresponding to April/May in the Gregorian calendar.
This festival celebrated the re-creation of the Earth, drawing from the Marduk-centered creation story described in the Enûma Eliš.
In Babylonian religion, the ritual care and worship of the statues of deities was considered sacred; the gods resided simultaneously in their statues in temples and in the natural forces they embodied.
An elaborate ceremony of washing the mouths of the statues appeared sometime in the Old Babylonian period.
The pillaging or destruction of idols was considered to be a withdrawal of divine patronage; during the Neo-Babylonian period, the Chaldean prince Marduk-apla-iddina II fled into the southern marshes of Mesopotamia with the statues of Babylon's gods to save them from the armies of Sennacherib of Assyria.
Many of the stories of the Tanakh are believed to have been based on, influenced by, or inspired by the legendary mythological past of the Near East.
Elizabeth Parsons Ware Packard (28 December 1816 &ndash; 25 July 1897) was an advocate for the rights of women and people accused of insanity.
Elizabeth Packard was the oldest of three children and the only daughter of Samuel and Lucy Ware.
Samuel was a Congregational minister in the Connecticut Valley.
At the insistence of her parents, Elizabeth Parsons Ware married minister Theophilus Packard, fourteen years her senior, on 21 May 1839.
The couple had six children.
The family resided in Kankakee County, Illinois and, for many years, appeared to have a peaceful marriage.
But Theophilus Packard held quite decisive religious beliefs.
After many years of marriage, Elizabeth Packard outwardly questioned her husband's beliefs and began expressing opinions that were contrary to his.
While the main subject of their dispute was religion, the couple also disagreed on child rearing, family finances, and the issue of slavery.
When Illinois opened its first hospital for the mentally ill in 1851, the state legislature passed a law that required a public hearing before a person could be committed against his or her will.
There was one exception, however: a husband could have his wife committed without either a public hearing or her consent.
In 1860, Theophilus Packard judged that his wife was "slightly insane" and arranged for a doctor, J.W.
Brown, to speak with her.
The doctor pretended to be a sewing machine salesman.
During their conversation, Elizabeth complained of her husband's domination and his accusations to others that she was insane.
Dr Brown reported this conversation to Theophilus (along with the observation that Mrs Packard "exhibited a great dislike to me").
Theophilus decided to have Elizabeth committed.
She learned of this decision on June 18, 1860, when the county sheriff arrived at the Packard home to take her into custody.
Elizabeth Packard spent the next three years at the Jacksonville Insane Asylum in Jacksonville, IL (now the Jacksonville Developmental Center).
She was regularly questioned by her doctors but refused to agree that she was insane or to change her religious views.
Finally, after public pressure, Mrs. Packard was brought out for a jury trial before Judge Starr of Kankakee City; the jury declared her falsely imprisoned, and she was released.
In 1863, in part due to pressure from her children who wished her released, the doctors declared that she was incurable and discharged her.
When Mrs. Packard returned to the home she shared with her husband in Manteno, Illinois, she found that the night before her release, her husband had rented their home to another family, sold her furniture, and had taken her money, notes, wardrobe, and children and left the state.
She appealed to both the Supreme Court of Chicago and Boston, where her husband had taken her children, but had no legal recourse, as married women in these states at the time had no legal rights to their property or children (see Coverture).
At the subsequent trial of Packard v. Packard, Theophilus' lawyers produced witnesses from his family who testified that Elizabeth had argued with her husband and tried to withdraw from his congregation.
These witnesses concurred with Theophilus that this was a sign of insanity.
The record from the Illinois State Hospital stating that Mrs Packard's condition was incurable was also entered into the court record.
Elizabeth's lawyers, Stephen Moore and John W. Orr, responded by calling witnesses from the neighbourhood that knew the Packards but were not members of Theophilus' church.
These witnesses testified they never saw Elizabeth exhibit any signs of insanity, while discussing religion or otherwise.
The final witness was Dr. Duncanson, who was both a physician and a theologian.
Dr. Duncanson had interviewed Elizabeth Packard and he testified that while not necessarily in agreement with all her religious beliefs..."I do not call people insane because they differ with me.
I pronounce her a sane woman and wish we had a nation of such women."
The jury took only seven minutes to find in Elizabeth Packard's favor.
She was legally declared sane, and Judge Charles Starr issued an order that she should not be confined.
Elizabeth did not return to her home.
While the Packards never formally divorced, they remained separated for the rest of their lives.
Elizabeth did stay close to her children and retained their support.
Elizabeth realized how narrow her legal victory had been.
While she had escaped confinement, it was largely a measure of luck.
The underlying social principles which had led to her confinement still existed.
She founded the Anti-Insane Asylum Society and published several books, including Marital Power Exemplified, or Three Years Imprisonment for Religious Belief (1864), Great Disclosure of Spiritual Wickedness in High Places (1865), The Mystic Key or the Asylum Secret Unlocked (1866), and The Prisoners' Hidden Life, Or Insane Asylums Unveiled (1868).
In 1867, the State of Illinois passed a "Bill for the Protection of Personal Liberty" which guaranteed all people accused of insanity, including wives, had the right to a public hearing.
She also saw similar laws passed in three other states.
Barbara Hambly refers to Mrs. Packard in some detail in her novel on the insanity of Mary Todd Lincoln.
Emily Mann wrote a play on Mrs Packard, which premiered in May 2007.
In Emily Mann's play, Mrs. Packard describes her life fully in the insane asylum; it is very historically accurate.
A Letter Concerning Toleration by John Locke was originally published in 1689.
Its initial publication was in Latin, though it was immediately translated into other languages.
Locke's work appeared amidst a fear that Catholicism might be taking over England, and responds to the problem of religion and government by proposing religious toleration as the answer.
This "letter" is addressed to an anonymous "Honored Sir": this was actually Locke's close friend Philipp van Limborch, who published it without Locke's knowledge.
One of the founders of Empiricism, Locke develops a philosophy that is contrary to the one expressed by Thomas Hobbes in Leviathan, in supporting toleration for various Christian denominations.
Hobbes did allow for individuals to maintain their own religious beliefs as long as they outwardly expressed those of the state, however, and it has been argued that his rejection of Catholic Imperialism was the ultimate basis for Locke's rejection of government's interest in spiritual salvation.
Unlike Hobbes, who saw uniformity of religion as the key to a well-functioning civil society, Locke argues that more religious groups actually prevent civil unrest.
Locke argues that civil unrest results from confrontations caused by any magistrate's attempt to prevent different religions from being practiced, rather than tolerating their proliferation.
Locke's primary goal is to "distinguish exactly the business of civil government from that of religion."
He seeks to persuade the reader that government is instituted to promote external interests, relating to life, liberty, and the general welfare, while the church exists to promote internal interests, i.e., salvation.
The two serve separate functions, and so, must be considered to be separate institutions.
For Locke, the only way a Church can gain genuine converts is through persuasion and not through violence.
This relates to his central conclusion, namely, that the government should not involve itself in care of souls.
In support of this argument he presents three main reasons: (1) individuals, according to Locke, cannot divest control over their souls to secular forces, as God does not appoint the magistrate; (2) force cannot create the change necessary for salvation, because while it can coerce obedience, it cannot change one's beliefs; and (3) even if coercion could persuade someone of a notion, it would not help with ensuring salvation, because there is no reason to believe that magistrates are reliable judges of religious truth.
Locke argued that atheists should not be tolerated because 'Promises, covenants, and oaths, which are the bonds of human society, can have no hold upon an atheist'.
There is, however, a passage added in a later edition of the Essay concerning Human Understanding, where Locke perhaps questions "whether 'atheism' was necessarily inimical to political obedience."
The Roman Catholic Church cannot be tolerated either, according to Locke, because 'all those who enter into it do thereby ipso facto deliver themselves up to the protection and service of another prince'.
If this Church were tolerated, a magistrate would have to abide by the settling of a 'foreign jurisdiction' in his own country and see its followers 'listed, as it were, for soldiers against his own Government'.
However, at least one scholar has argued that "The combination of Locke’s comments in the Letter suggest that during [its] composition ... Locke was once again struggling over how to discriminate between the series of associated political principles which for him made Catholics intolerable, and the religious worship and other religious beliefs of Catholics which deserved toleration."
Toleration is central to Locke's political philosophy.
Consequently, only churches that teach toleration are to be allowed in his society.
Locke’s view on the difficulty of knowing the one true religion may suggest that religion is not personally important to Locke, but it also may point to the deep uncertainties surrounding religious belief in a time of political and intellectual conflict.
In contrast, Locke’s view on atheism suggests that he was far from considering religion as unimportant.
As an empiricist, he took practical considerations into account, such as how the peace of civil society will be affected by religious toleration.
A close reading of the text also reveals that Locke relies on Biblical analysis at several key points in his argument.
There were immediate responses from the High Church Anglican clergy, published by Thomas Long and Jonas Proast.
Long believed the letter was written by an atheistically disguised Jesuit plot for the Roman Catholic Church to gain dominance by bringing chaos and ruin to church and state.
Proast attacked the Letter and defended the view that the government has the right to use force to cause dissenters to reflect on the merits of Anglicanism, the True Religion.
Locke's reply to Proast developed into an extended, controversial exchange.
Robert Walter McElroy (born February 5, 1954) is a Roman Catholic prelate.
From 2010 through 2015 he was auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of San Francisco, California.
He became the Bishop of San Diego in 2015.
McElroy was born in San Francisco, California.
He earned a A.B.
in history from Harvard University in 1975 and an M.A.
from Stanford in 1976.
He then attended St. Patrick's Seminary in Menlo Park, California, where he earned an STL degree in 1985 from the Jesuit School of Theology in the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, California, with a thesis entitled, Freedom for Faith: John Courtney Murray and the Constitutional Question, 1942-1954.
McElroy was ordained to the priesthood for the San Francisco Archdiocese on April 12, 1980.
He was secretary to Archbishop John Quinn and Vicar General of the Archdiocese of San Francisco.
He was parochial vicar at St. Cecilia Church in San Francisco and St. Pius Church in Redwood City, California.
He was pastor of St. Gregory Church in San Mateo, California from 1996–2011.
He spent the last several months at St. Gregory as pastor and bishop.
In 1986 he was awarded a doctorate in moral theology from the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome, with a dissertation entitled, John Courtney Murray and the Secular Crisis: Foundations for an American Catholic Public Theology, along with a PhD in political science from Stanford University in 1989 with a dissertation entitled, Morality and American Foreign Policy : The Role of Moral Norms in International Affairs.
He is the author of The Search for an American Public Theology: The Contribution of John Courtney Murray (Paulist Press, 1989) and Morality and American Foreign Policy: The Role of Ethics in International Affairs (Princeton University Press, 1992).
He has written four articles for America.
In 2005, he published an essay on the denial of the Eucharist to public officials because of their political positions.
He criticized those who adopt what he called the "sanctions position" for a lack of "pastoral solicitude", noted the expansion of grounds for sanctions from abortion to euthanasia and other issues by one diocese or another, questioned the lack of clarity as to what behavior triggers sanctions, and cited the occasions when Pope John Paul II distributed communion to political leaders who favored legalized abortion.
He proposed that the church's traditional "theology of scandal" should be invoked rather than employing Eucharistic practice as a means of discipline.
He warned that imposing sanctions on individuals harms the church by appearing coercive, strengthens the argument of abortion advocates that the church is attempting to impose its religious beliefs on society at large, downplays the breadth of the church's social agenda, and tends to "cast the church as a partisan actor in the American political system."
He taught ethics at St. Patrick's Seminary and was guest professor of social ethics at the University of San Francisco in the Fall of 2008.
On July 6, 2010, McElroy was appointed an auxiliary bishop for San Francisco and titular Bishop of Gemellae in Byzacena by Pope Benedict XVI.
He received his episcopal consecration on the following September 7 from Archbishop George Hugh Niederauer of San Francisco, with Archbishop Emeritus John Raphael Quinn of San Francisco and Bishop John Charles Wester of Salt Lake City serving as co-consecrators.
Writing in America, he argued that the emphasis of Pope Francis on inequality in Catholic social teaching On March 3, 2015, McElroy was appointed the sixth Bishop of San Diego by Pope Francis, succeeding the late Bishop Cirilo Flores.
The diocese serves about one million Catholics in San Diego and Imperial counties.
His installation took place on April 15, 2015, at St. Therese of Carmel Catholic Church.
McElroy is widely regarded as a supporter of the progressive policies of Pope Francis.
In his first public appearance in San Diego, he pledged to champion the cause of the homeless; to support comprehensive immigration reform; and to ban anyone who has abused minors from serving in the clergy or other employment in the diocese.
A Jewish Buddhist (also Jewbu or Jubu or Buju) is a person with a Jewish background who practices forms of Buddhist meditation and spirituality.
The term Jubu was first brought into wide circulation with the publication of The Jew in the Lotus (1994) by Rodger Kamenetz.
In some cases, the term can refer to individuals who practice both traditions; in other cases, Jewish is an ethnic designation where the person's main religious practice is Buddhism.
In yet other cases, a Jubu is simply a Jew with an interest in Buddhism.
A large demographic of Jewish Buddhists, constituting its majority, still maintain religious practices and beliefs in Judaism coupled with Buddhist practices and perhaps beliefs.
The first recorded instance of an American being converted to Buddhism on American soil occurred at the 1893 exposition on world religions; the convert was a Jewish man named Charles Strauss.
He declared himself a Buddhist at a public lecture that followed the World Conference on Religions in 1893.
Strauss later became an author and leading expositor of Buddhism in the West.
After World War II there was increasing interest in Buddhism, associated with the Beat generation.
Zen was the most important influence at that time.
A new wave of Jews became involved with Buddhism in the late 1960s.
Prominent teachers included Joseph Goldstein, Jack Kornfield and Sharon Salzberg who founded the Insight Meditation Society, Sylvia Boorstein who teaches at Spirit Rock Meditation Center, all of whom learned vipassana meditation primarily through Thai teachers.
Another generation of Jews as Buddhist teachers emerged in the early 2000s, including author Taro Gold, expounding Japanese traditions such as Nichiren Buddhism.
According to the Ten Commandments and classical Jewish law, known as Halacha, it is forbidden for any Jew to worship any deity other than the way God is worshipped in Judaism – specifically by bowing, offering incense, sacrifices and/or poured libations.
It is likewise forbidden to join or serve in another religion because doing so would render such an individual an apostate or an idol worshipper.
Since most Buddhists do not consider the Buddha to have been a "god", Jewish Buddhists do not consider Buddhist practice to be "worship".
This is despite incense and food offerings are made to a statue of the Buddha, and both prostration and bowing are done before a statue of the Buddha.
In addition, many Buddhists (particularly Theravada Buddhists) do not "worship" the Buddha but instead "revere" and "express gratitude" for the Buddha's (and all buddhas') accomplishment and compassionate teaching (that is, discovering and teaching the Dharma so others might be released from suffering and achieve Nirvana).
Postmodern religion is any type of religion that is influenced by postmodernism and postmodern philosophies.
Examples of religions that may be interpreted using postmodern philosophy include Postmodern Christianity, Postmodern Neopaganism , and Postmodern Buddhism.
Postmodern religion is not an attempt to banish religion from the public sphere; rather, it is a philosophical approach to religion that critically considers orthodox assumptions (that may reflect power differences in society rather than universal truths).C The Oxford Handbook of the sociology of religion.
</ref> Postmodern religious systems of thought view realities as plural and subjective and dependent on the individual's worldview.
Postmodern interpretations of religion acknowledge and value a multiplicity of diverse interpretations of truth, being and ways of seeing.
There is a rejection of sharp distinctions and global or dominant metanarratives in postmodern religion and this reflects one of the core principles of postmodern philosophy.
A postmodern interpretation of religion emphasises the key point that religious truth is highly individualistic, subjective and resides within the individual.
According to postmodern philosophy, society is in a state of constant change.
There is no absolute version of reality, no absolute truths.
Postmodern religion strengthens the perspective of the individual and weakens the strength of institutions and religions that deal with objective realities.
Postmodern religion considers that there are no universal religious truths or laws, rather, reality is shaped by social, historical and cultural contexts according to the individual, place and or time.
Individuals may seek to draw eclectically on diverse religious beliefs, practices and rituals in order to incorporate these into their own religious world view.
In Japan, Shinto and Buddhist ideas are woven together and co-exist.
Some people who practice Buddhism may be syncretic in their approach.
Syncretism occurs among the Eastern religions.
Similarly, versions of Hinduism and Neopaganism may also be interpreted from a postmodern perspective.
A postmodern religion can be non-dogmatic, syncretic, and eclectic: in drawing from various faiths and traditions, it challenges the notion of absolute truths.
History may be written by powerful groups in society, who may marginalise, silence or misrepresent other, less powerful or oppressed groups.
As Winston Churchill famously remarked, "History is written by the victors."
A postmodern interpretation of religion emphasises the importance of questioning and considering historical bias when studying religion from a historical perspective.
For example, doctoral studies in religion at Harvard emphasise studying religion using wider contexts of history and comparative studies.
It is these "wider contexts" that makes religion a valid subject of postmodern contemplation.
Studies of religion are often approached from a historical perspective.
A postmodern interpretation of a religion acknowledges that history can be represented in an inherently biased way, reinforcing the mainstream ideologies of those in power.
Postmodern religion acknowledges and accepts different versions of truth.
For example, rituals, beliefs and practices can be invented, transformed, created and reworked based on constantly shifting and changing realities, individual preference, myths, legends, archetypes, rituals and cultural values and beliefs.
Individuals who interpret religion using postmodern philosophy may draw from the histories of various cultures to inform their religious beliefs - they may question, reclaim, challenge and critique representations of religion in history based on the theories of postmodernism, which acknowledge that realities are diverse, subjective and depend on the individuals interests and interpretations.
Interpreting Christianity using theories of postmodernism usually involves finding the balance between acknowledging pluralism, a plurality of views and historical influence on doctrine and avoiding the extremes of postmodernism.
John Riggs proposes that postmodernism and Christianity have much to offer each other.
He asserts that Christians who have adopted elements of postmodern thinking still need to acknowledge that some notions of reality need to be fixed and real in order to have "meaningful claims about vital topics such as ethics and God".
An example of a specific religious movement that uses postmodern thinking is the Emerging Church.
Neopaganism can be interpreted from a postmodern perspective.
Postmodern religion can be non-dogmatic, syncretic, eclectic, and draw from various faiths and traditions and challenges the notion of absolute truths.
Wicca, the largest tradition of Neopaganism, can be interpreted using postmodern philosophies.
Postmodern interpretations of Wicca often lead to the practitioner adopting a more eclectic approach, because the very nature of postmodern theory involves the acceptance of many versions of truth and reality.
Eclectic Wicca is the most widely adapted form of Wicca in America today and the core philosophies of postmodern thinking are often used in order to form an interpretation of Wicca that is highly individual and characterized by the subjective questioning of reality and truth.
This version of Wicca may draw eclectically from, adapt, challenge and adopt a wider range of religious beliefs and perspectives, such as Buddhism, Shintoism, Druidism and Hinduism and Wicca and Goddess movements such as Dianic Wicca, Celtic Wicca and Semitic Neopaganism.
Postmodern interpretations of Wicca tend to be context driven, egalitarian, immanent and experiential.
Academic texts often represent Wicca in literature and research as a specific tradition that is underpinned by discourses of modernism.
Postmodern spirituality refers to new forms of spirituality in the contexts of postmodern societies in a globalised world.
Former universalistic worldviews of modernity become contested, old explanations and certainties questioned.
Mark Silk is a professor of religion in public life at Trinity College (Hartford, Connecticut), where he directs the Leonard E. Greenberg Center for the Study of Religion in Public Life and serves as editor of Religion in the News.
He was born in Cambridge, Mass.
in 1950 and graduated from Harvard College in 1972.
In 1982 he earned a Ph.D. in medieval history from Harvard.
He was editor of the Boston Review from 1985 to 1986, and worked as a reporter, editorial writer, and columnist for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution Silk is the author of Spiritual Politics: Religion and America Since World War II and Unsecular Media: Making News of Religion in America and co-editor of Religion by Region, an eight-volume series on religion and public life in the United States, With Andrew Walsh he wrote the series summary volume, One Nation Divisible: How Regional Religious Differences Shape American Politics, published in hardcover in 2008 and in an undated paperback edition in 2011.
In the 1980s and 1990s Silk was a regular contributor to the New York Times, contributing essays and book reviews on feminist theology, new religious movements, Jewish identity, and other religion-related topics.
In 1984 he traced the use of "Judeo-Christian" in American culture.
In 1995 he argued that the American news media approach religion with certain Western religious preconceptions that do not always do justice to the varieties of religious belief and behavior.
In 2005, he traced the history of the idea of civil religion through changing views of the figure of Numa Pompilius, the second king of Rome.
Since 2007 Silk has blogged about religion in public life at Spiritual Politics.
Liberal theism is the philosophical and religious belief in the existence of a deity without adhering to an established religion.
The exact definition is debatable.
Liberal theists often believe that, "all religions lead to the truth."
Liberal theists are often influenced by the beliefs in their culture.
For example, a liberal theist in the United States is likely to have beliefs strongly influenced by Christianity.
It can also be said that all religions began as a form of liberal theism.
Liberal theists are more likely to be proponents of moral relativism than moral absolutism.
They often claim that there are no black and white concepts, but instead only subjective beliefs.
Liberal theism should not be confused with Liberation Theology.
Liberalism can also exist in established religions, such as Christianity, Judaism, or Islam.
A key aspect of Liberal Theism is the idea that classical theism can be modified.
This means a Liberal Christian may not, for example, conform entirely to the description of God in the Bible.
He/she would say that we can redefine God.
They generally argue that people 2,000 years ago did not necessarily have the correct idea.
Liberal Theism can be seen as a response to the problem of evil argument against the existence of God.
The problem of evil suggests that an "all good" and "all powerful" God could not possibly endorse or allow evil actions to occur, for example, the Holocaust.
A liberal theist may suggest that perhaps God is not all powerful, that perhaps God is just the "most powerful".
That is, that God cannot control some things.
This allows for us to say that humans can use their own innate reason to act in an evil way.
Liberal Theism also provides an answer to the question, "If God is all powerful, then can he create a rock that not even he can pick up?".
A classical theist may spend a lifetime pondering this question without figuring out an adequate answer, but a liberal theist would say that either God is not all powerful, after all, or that it is a moot point since God would not bother in such petty issues as creating and moving rocks.
Justin L. Barrett (born 1971) is Director of the Thrive Center for Human Development, Thrive Professor of Developmental Science, and Professor of Psychology at Fuller Graduate School of Psychology.
He previously held a post as senior researcher of the Centre for Anthropology and Mind and The Institute for Cognitive and Evolutionary Anthropology at Oxford University.
Barrett earned a B.A.
in psychology from Calvin College and a Ph.D in experimental psychology (cognitive and developmental focus) from Cornell University.
He served on the psychology faculties of Calvin College and the University of Michigan (Ann Arbor), and as a research fellow of the Institute for Social Research.
Dr. Barrett is a founding editor of the Journal of Cognition & Culture and is author of numerous articles and chapters concerning the cognitive science of religion.
Barrett is described in the New York Times as a "prominent member of the byproduct camp" and "an observant Christian who believes in “an all-knowing, all-powerful, perfectly good God who brought the universe into being,” [and] “that the purpose for people is to love God and love each other.” He considers that “Christian theology teaches that people were crafted by God to be in a loving relationship with him and other people, Why wouldn’t God, then, design us in such a way as to find belief in divinity quite natural?” Having a scientific explanation for mental phenomena does not mean we should stop believing in them.
“Suppose science produces a convincing account for why I think my wife loves me — should I then stop believing that she does?” In his book Why would anyone believe in God he suggests that "belief in God is an almost inevitable consequence of the kind of minds we have.
Most of what we believe comes from mental tools working below our conscious awareness.
And what we believe consciously is in large part driven by these unconscious beliefs."
and "that beliefs in gods match up well with these automatic assumptions; beliefs in an all-knowing, all-powerful God match up even better."
Irreligion (adjective form: non-religious or irreligious) is the absence, indifference, or rejection of religion.< When characterized as the rejection of religious belief, it encompasses atheism, agnosticism, religious dissidence, and secular humanism.
When characterized as the absence of religious belief, it may also include "spiritual but not religious", pandeism, ignosticism, nontheism, pantheism, panentheism, and freethought.
When characterized as indifference to religion, it is known as apatheism.
Irreligion may include some forms of theism, depending on the religious context it is defined against; for example, in 18th-century Europe, the epitome of irreligion was deism.
According to Pew Research Center projections, the nonreligious, though temporarily increasing, will ultimately decline significantly by 2050 because of lower reproductive rates and ageing.
In 1993, the UN's human rights committee declared that article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights "protects theistic, non-theistic and atheistic beliefs, as well as the right not to profess any religion or belief."
The committee further stated that "the freedom to have or to adopt a religion or belief necessarily entails the freedom to choose a religion or belief, including the right to replace one's current religion or belief with another or to adopt atheistic views."
Signatories to the convention are barred from "the use of threat of physical force or penal sanctions to compel believers or non-believers" to recant their beliefs or convert.
Most Western democracies protect the freedom of religion, and it is largely implied in respective legal systems that those who do not believe or observe any religion are allowed freedom of thought.
A noted exception to ambiguity, explicitly allowing non-religion, is Article 36 of the Constitution of the People's Republic of China (as authored in 1982), which states that "No state organ, public organization or individual may compel citizens to believe in, or not to believe in, any religion; nor may they discriminate against citizens who believe in, or do not believe in, any religion."
Article 46 of China’s 1978 Constitution was even more explicit, stating that "Citizens enjoy freedom to believe in religion and freedom not to believe in religion and to propagate atheism."
Although 11 countries listed below have non-religious majorities, it does not mean that majority of the populations of these countries don′t belong to any religious group.
For example, 67.5% of the Swedish population belongs to Lutheran Christian Church, while 58.7% of Albanians declare themselves as Muslims.
Also, though Scandinavian countries have among the highest measures of nonreligiosity and even atheism in Europe, 47% of atheists who live in those countries are still members of the national churches.
A Pew 2015 global projection study for religion and nonreligion, projects that between 2010 and 2050, there will some initial increases of the unaffiliated followed by a decline by 2050 due to lower global fertility rates among this demographic.
Sociologist Phil Zuckerman's global studies on atheism have indicated that global atheism may be in decline due to irreligious countries having the lowest birth rates in the world and religious countries having higher birth rates in general.
According to Pew Research Center's 2012 global study of 230 countries, 16% of the world's population is not affiliated with a religion, while 84% are affiliated.
Several other polls on the subject have been conducted by Gallup International: their 2012 poll from 57 countries reported that 59% of the world's population identified as religious, 23% as not religious, 13% as "convinced atheists", and also a 9% decrease in identification as "religious" when compared to the 2005 average from 39 countries.
Their follow up poll in 2015 found that 63% of the globe identified as religious, 22% as not religious, and 11% as "convinced atheists".
Being nonreligious is not necessarily equivalent to being an atheist or agnostic.
Pew Research Center's global study from 2012 noted that many of the nonreligious actually have some religious beliefs.
For example, they observed that "belief in God or a higher power is shared by 7% of Chinese unaffiliated adults, 30% of French unaffiliated adults and 68% of unaffiliated U.S.
adults."
Out of the global nonreligious population, 76% reside in Asia and the Pacific, while the remainder reside in Europe (12%), North America (5%), Latin America and the Caribbean (4%), sub-Saharan Africa (2%) and the Middle East and North Africa (less than 1%).
The tables below order the percentage of a country's population that are nonreligious from highest to lowest.
The Constitution of Guyana provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice.
The U.S. government could locate no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice during 2007, and prominent societal leaders took positive steps to promote religious freedom.
Data from a 2002 census on religious affiliation indicates that approximately 57 percent of the population is Christian: 17 percent Pentecostal, 8 percent Roman Catholic, 7 percent Anglican, 5 percent Seventh-day Adventist, and 20 percent other Christian groups.
Approximately 28 percent is Hindu, 7 percent is Muslim (mostly Sunni), and 2 percent practice other beliefs, including the Rastafari movement and the Baha'i Faith.
An estimated 4 percent of the population does not profess any religion.
The country is ethnically diverse, reflecting East Indian, African, Chinese, and European ancestry, as well as a significant indigenous population.
Members of all ethnic groups are well represented in all religious groups, with two exceptions: most Hindus are Indo-Guyanese, and nearly all Rastafarians are Afro-Guyanese.
Foreign missionaries from many religious groups are present.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
The Government at all levels sought to protect this right in full and did not tolerate its abuse, either by governmental or private actors.
The law protects the right of individuals to choose and change their religion and to interpret their religious beliefs for themselves.
Members of all religious groups worshipped freely.
There is no state or otherwise dominant religion, and the Government practiced no form of religious favoritism or discrimination.
While the Government recognizes religious groups of all faiths, they must register with the Government to receive formal recognition.
Religious groups seeking to establish operations must first obtain permission from the Ministry of Home Affairs.
In the past, access to Amerindian areas required permission from the Ministry of Amerindian Affairs and the Ministry of Home Affairs; however, under the 2006 revision of the Amerindian Act only the permission of the local Village Council is required.
There is no formal monitoring of religious groups.
The following holy days are national holidays: Christian-Good Friday, Easter, and Christmas; Hindu-Phagwah (festival welcoming spring) and Diwali (festival of lights); Islamic-You-Man-Nabi (birth of the Prophet Muhammad) and Eid Al-Adha (feast of sacrifice).
Both public and religiously affiliated schools exist, and parents are free to send their children to the school of their choice without sanction or restriction.
The Government imposes no requirements regarding religion for any official or nonofficial purposes.
Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
The Guyana Defense Force (GDF) makes an effort to coordinate with civilian religious groups to provide personnel with access to religious services.
Leaders of all major religious groups provided prayer and counseling, although generally only Christian sermons were given on GDF bases.
Although no official GDF policy requires attendance at religious services, anecdotal evidence from GDF officers suggests that individual commanders required attendance at some religious programs.
Membership in a particular religion did not confer any advantage or disadvantage; however, general military practice tended to be biased in favor of Christians.
There were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country or of forced religious conversion.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
The Inter-Religious Organization (IRO), a nongovernmental umbrella organization for Christian, Hindu, Islamic, and Baha'i organizations, held events to promote peace during the August 2006 election.
The IRO's role in supporting harmony among religious groups was largely supplanted by the Ethnic Relations Commission, a government-constituted body.
In September 2009, forty mainly U.S. citizen missionaries from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints were detained briefly.
Subsequently the 100+ missionaries were ordered to leave the country within a month.
In addition to its missionary work, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints owns approximately $2 million in property in Guyana, and cultivates farms in the country.
Missionaries have worked in the country for more than 20 years.
There is no single Buddhist view concerning abortion.
Inducing or otherwise causing an abortion is regarded as a serious matter in the monastic rules followed by both Theravada and Vajrayana monks; monks can be expelled for assisting a woman in procuring an abortion.
Traditional sources do not recognize a distinction between early- and late-term abortion, but in Sri Lanka and Thailand the "moral stigma" associated with an abortion grows with the development of the fetus.
While traditional sources do not seem to be aware of the possibility of abortion as relevant to the health of the mother, modern Buddhist teachers from many traditions- and abortion laws in many Buddhist countries- recognize a threat to the life or physical health of the mother as an acceptable justification for abortion as a practical matter, though it may still be seen as a deed with negative moral or karmic consequences.
Views on abortion vary a great deal between different regions, reflecting the influence of the various Buddhist traditions, as well as the influence of other religious and philosophical traditions and contact with Western thought.
Abortion is generally regarded very negatively among ethnic Tibetan Buddhists.
Prior to the emergence of the Tibetan diaspora in the 1950s, Tibetans do not seem to have been familiar with abortion for reasons of medical necessity, and, facing little population pressure, saw little reason to engage in what they saw as the destruction of innocent life.
Though no systematic information is available, abortion appears to be very rare among exiled Tibetans living in areas where abortion is legal.
Tibetan Buddhists believe that a person who has had an abortion should be treated compassionately, and guided to atone for the negative act through appropriate good deeds and religious practices; these acts are aimed at improving the karmic outcome for both the mother and the aborted fetus, but authorities warn that they will not be effective if one has undertaken an abortion while planning to 'negate' it by atoning for it later.
The Dalai Lama has said that abortion is "negative," but there are exceptions.
He said, "I think abortion should be approved or disapproved according to each circumstance."
Laws and views on abortion vary greatly in Theravada Buddhist nations.
Attitudes and laws in Thailand are generally more liberal than in Sri Lanka.
While abortion is still viewed as negative in Burma (Myanmar), it is allegedly also employed with some frequency to prevent out-of-wedlock births.
Regarding attitudes towards abortion in Thailand, Peter Harvey notes: <blockquote>...abortion is discussed not in the language of rights – to life or choice – but of ‘benefit and harm, with the intent of relieving as much human suffering in all its states, stages and situations as circumstances allow’, with an emphasis on reducing the circumstances leading women to feel that they need to have an abortion.< In November 2010, the issue of abortion and Buddhism in Thailand was thrust onto the front pages after 2000 fetuses were discovered stored at a temple in Bangkok.
Abortion remains illegal in the country except in cases of rape or risk to the woman's health.
Following the scandal, leading politicians and monks spoke out to reaffirm their opposition to more liberalised abortion laws.
Phramaha Vudhijaya Vajiramedhi was unequivocal: "In [the] Buddhist view, both having an abortion and performing an abortion amount to murder.
Those involved in abortions will face distress in both this life and the next because their sins will follow them."
Prime Minister Abhisit announced a crackdown on illegal abortion clinics and refused calls to change the law, saying that current laws were "good enough."
Peter Harvey relates attitudes towards abortion in Burma to Melford Spiro's observation that Buddhists in Burma recognize a clear distinction between what may be regarded as 'ultimate good' in a religious sense and what is a 'worldly good' or utilitarian act.
Despite the prevalence of illegal abortions in Burma due to economic difficulty, many Buddhists consider it against their religious beliefs.
A 1995 survey on women in Burma showed that 99% thought abortion was against their religious beliefs.
Buddhists in Japan are said to be more tolerant of abortion than those who live elsewhere.
In Japan, women sometimes participate in the Shinto-Buddhist ritual of mizuko kuyō (水子供養 — lit.
'fetus memorial service') after an induced abortion or an abortion as the result of a miscarriage.
Similarly, in Taiwan women sometimes pray to appease ghosts of aborted fetuses and assuage feelings of guilt due to having an abortion; this type of ritual is called .
The modern practice emerged in the mid-1970s and grew significantly in popularity in the 1980s, particularly following the full legalization of abortion in 1985.
It draws both from traditional antecedents dating back to the Han dynasty, and the Japanese practice.
These modern practices emerged in the context of demographic change associated with modernization – rising population, urbanization, and decreasing family size – together with changing attitudes towards sexuality, which occurred first in Japan, and then in Taiwan, hence the similar response and Taiwan's taking inspiration from Japan.
In the United States, it is believed that Buddhism generally doesn't delineate absolute rules to be followed in all circumstances.
Lama Surya Das has noted that the entire situation must be analyzed as things are rarely cut and dried: Even the Dalai Lama has explained that the overall picture must be viewed:
The Decian persecution resulted from an edict issued in 250 by the Emperor Decius ordering everyone in the Roman Empire to perform a sacrifice to the Roman gods and the well-being of the Emperor.
The edict ordered that the sacrifices be performed in the presence of a Roman magistrate, and a signed and witnessed certificate be issued to that effect.
It was the first time that Christians had faced legislation forcing them to choose between their religious beliefs and death, although there is no evidence that Decius' edict was specifically intended to target Christians.
The edict appears to have been designed more as an Empire-wide loyalty oath.
Nevertheless, a number of Christians were put to death for refusing to perform the sacrifices, many others apostatized and performed the ceremonies, and others went into hiding.
The effects were long-lasting and caused tension between Christians who had performed the sacrifices or fled and those who had not, and left bitter memories of persecution.
Decius became Roman emperor in 249 as a result of military victories.
He made efforts to revive Rome's "Golden Age", adding the name of one of his most admired predecessors, Trajan, to his own, revived the ancient office of censor and restored the Colosseum.
Restoration of traditional Roman piety was another of his aims, and after performing the annual sacrifice to Jupiter on January 3, 250, he issued an edict, the text of which is lost, ordering sacrifices to the gods to be made throughout the Empire.
Jews were specifically exempted from this requirement.
There is no evidence that this edict was intended to target Christians or that persecution of Christians was even thought of as one of the effects this decree would have; rather, it was seen as a way of unifying a vast Empire and as a sort of loyalty oath.
Nevertheless, this was the first time that Christians had faced legislation forcing them to choose between abandoning their religious beliefs and death.
The edict ordered that everyone in the Empire, with the exception of Jews, must sacrifice and burn incense to the gods and to the well-being of the Emperor in the presence of a Roman magistrate, and get a written certificate, called a libellus, that this had been done, signed by the magistrate and witnesses.
Numerous examples of these libelli survive from Egypt, for instance:<blockquote>To the commission chosen to superintend the sacrifices.
From Aurelia Ammonous, daughter of Mystus, of the Moeris quarter,priestess of the god Petesouchos, the great, the mighty, the immortal, and priestess of the gods in the Moeris quarter.
I have sacrificed to the gods all my life, and now again, in accordance with the decree and in your presence, I have made sacrifice, and poured a libation, and partaken of the sacred victims.
I request you to certify this below.< </blockquote> There is nothing in these extant libelli about being forced to deny being a Christian, in contrast to the letter the Roman provincial governor Pliny the Younger had written to the Emperor Trajan in 112, in which he reported that he required suspected Christians to curse Christ, an indication that targeting or persecuting Christians was not a goal of Decius' edict.
Julius Caesar had formulated a policy of allowing Jews to follow their traditional religious practices, a policy which was followed, and extended, by Augustus.
This gave Judaism the status of a religio licita (permitted religion) throughout the Empire.
Roman authorities respected tradition in religion and the Jews were following the beliefs and practices of their ancestors.
It was well understood that Jews would not perform sacrifices to the Roman gods or burn incense before an image of the Emperor.
In contrast, the Christians were a new phenomenon, and one that did not seem like a religion to Roman authorities at all; both the earliest extant Roman references to Christianity, Pliny the Younger and Tacitus in his Annals about 116, refer to Christianity as superstitio, excessive religiosity that was socially disruptive.
Christians had abandoned the religion of their forefathers, and were seeking to convert others, which seemed dangerous to the Romans; refusal to sacrifice for the Emperor's well-being appeared seditious.
Christians were prohibited by their faith from worshipping the Roman gods or burning incense before an image of the Emperor.
Refusal resulted in the deaths of some notable Christians, including Pope Fabian, Babylas of Antioch and Alexander of Jerusalem.
It is not known how much of an effort was made by the authorities to check that everyone in the Empire had a ticket certifying that they had sacrificed but it is known that numerous Christians, including Cyprian, bishop of Carthage, went into hiding.
The numbers of people put to death for refusing to obtain a certificate is unknown.
Large numbers of Christians performed the sacrifices as required, so much so that authorities at Carthage were overwhelmed by the numbers seeking a certificate and were forced to issue a notice requesting people to come back the next day.
The effects of the edict on Christian communities, many of which had until then lived peacefully and undisturbed, was traumatic.
Christians such as Cyprian who had fled rather than face death, or who had performed the sacrifices, faced hostility from other Christians.
By 251, efforts to enforce the edict had died down, and although short-lived, the "Decian persecution" became in the collective memory of the church an episode of monstrous tyranny.
Lazarus) is an urban neighborhood in the city of Banjaluka, Bosnia and Herzegovina (Republika Srpska entity).
Populated place lazarevo is located in the northern part of the city Banjaluka.
Lazarevo is one of the largest and most organized neighborhoods in the city.
Lazarevo consists of two local communities: In the first half of the 19th ages, then Budžak (now Lazarеvo) was a village near Banja Luka, which was sparsely populated.
The villagers have built houses away from the main road (road Gradiška), because it was safer to live in during the Ottoman rule.
During the Austro-Hungarians, the growing resort (old Gradiska road).
Then he built a train station.
there was a hydroelectric power plant in Trappist.
Before the war, Lazarevo was divided in four local communities.
According to the census in 1991., This town had 15,786 inhabitants.
Of that 8,642, or 54.7% Serbs 1068, or 6.7% Muslims, 2913 or 18.4% Croats, 2309 or 14.62 Yugoslavs and 854 or 5.4% of the others.
There are two religious building.
The monastery of Trappist monks, it is the only Trappist monastery in Southeastern Europe.
At the beginning of the 20th century, with 219 monks, the Abbey was the largest Trappist abbey in the world.
There is also an Orthodox church Lazarica.
jpg|Post in the populated place lazarevo File:2011--05-27 BL zoo 18.J JPG|ZOO Lazarevo File:Mariastern monastery.jpg|Mariastern monastery </gallery>
The Sicilian bishops' conference (Italian: Conferencia Episcopal Siciliana, CESI) is a group of Bishops of the Roman Catholic Church in Sicily.
These are the bishops of the 17 dioceses of the Church belong to the 5 provinces of the Church of Sicily, and the Eparch Piana degli Albanesi.
The Sicilian bishops' conference is a part of the Italian Episcopal Conference.
Some bishops who are in the Sicilian bishops 'conference delegates certain responsibilities belong to the Italian Bishops' Conference of the respective commissions.
The Sicilian bishops' conference includes the following: Cardinal Paolo Romeo, Archbishop of Palermo, president of CESI Archbishop Salvatore Gristina of Catania, Vice President of CESI Carmelo Cuttitta, Auxiliary Bishop of Palermo and Secretary of CESI Francesco Montenegro, Archbishop of Agrigento and Delegate for Charity and Health Salvatore Pappalardo, Archbishop of Siracusa (Syracuse), Delegate for the Liturgy Calogero La Piana, Archbishop of Messina and Delegate for Migration Salvatore Di Cristina, Archbishop of Monreale and Delegate for Culture and Social Communication Pio Vittorio Vigo, Bishop of Acireale and Delegate for Consecrated Life Mario Russotto, Bishop of Caltanissetta and Delegate for Family and Youth Calogero Peri, Bishop of Caltagirone Vincenzo Manzella, Bishop of Cefalù and Delegate of Social Affairs, Labour, Law and Peace Domenico Mogavero Bishop of Mazara del Vallo and delegate for economic receipt of the church, religious buildings and cultural assets Salvatore Muratore, Bishop of Nicosia and delegate for religious education and catechesis Antonio Stagliano, Bishop of Noto Ignazio Zambito, Bishop of Patti and Delegate to missionary cooperation between the churches Sotir Ferrara, Eparch of Piana degli Albanesi and Delegate for Ecumenism and Inter-Religious Dialogue Michele Pennisi, Bishop of Piazza Armerina and Delegate for Catholic Education, School and University Paolo Urso, Bishop of Ragusa and Delegate for clergy, seminars and Appeals Francesco Trapani, CEO of Bishop Miccichè for leisure, tourism and sport
The Maryvale Institute is a college of further and higher education, an International Catholic Distance-Learning College for Catechesis, Theology, Philosophy and Religious Education in Old Oscott, Great Barr, Birmingham, England.
It specialises in the provision of part-time and distance learning courses to the lay faithful and ministers of the Roman Catholic Church.
The College has existed in its current state since 1980, on the site of an earlier college, founded in 1794 for both the training of priests and the education of lay pupils.
Validated by Liverpool Hope University.
The Institute is part of the Archdiocese of Birmingham.
Its Doctoral (PhD) programme is accredited by Liverpool Hope University.
Its Masters programme is accredited by the Open University.
The emphasis of the Institute is on Diocesan catechesis.
The validator of the B. Divinity programme is the Faculté-Notre Dame at the École cathédrale de Paris.
Klaus-Jürgen Wrede (born 1963 in Meschede, North Rhine-Westphalia) is a German board game creator, the creator of the best-selling Carcassonne and Downfall of Pompeii.
Born to music-teacher parents in Meschede, Germany, Wrede grew up in the town of Arnsberg, Germany.
He attended college in Cologne, learning music and theology.
While on a vacation Wrede created Carcassonne which was published in 2000 by Hans im Glück in German and Rio Grande Games in English.
Carcassonne has become one of the most popular games at BoardGameGeek over recent years; , of the thousands of games on the website, only The Settlers of Catan has more user ratings.
As a child he played games such as Monopoly and chess.
He later played games such as Kremlin, Civilization, Age of Renaissance, Tikal, Ra, and Tigris and Euphrates.
His favorite game designers include Wolfgang Kramer, Reiner Knizia, Alan R. Moon, Klaus Teuber, Uwe Rosenberg, and Karl-Heinz Schmiel.
Klaus-Jürgen Wrede lives near Cologne and teaches music and religious education.
His favorite music includes soul, Wagner, Sting, Brahms, U2, jazz, Supertramp, and Chopin.
The Calvary Baptist Theological Seminary (CBS) was an evangelical seminary in the Baptist tradition, located in Lansdale, Pennsylvania, a suburb of Philadelphia.
It has 558 alumni and provided master's and doctoral degrees to clergy candidates across various conservative Baptist denominations.
The school was accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education.
The school was founded by Dr. Robert Jordan, the minister at the Calvary Baptist Church of Lansdale.
In 1979, just prior to the graduation of the first class, the state of Pennsylvania approved the school for official seminary designation.
Initially offering only a Master's of Divinity degree, a Master's of Theology program was added in 1985.
In 1986, the school became a doctoral institute, as it added a Doctor of Divinity program.
Two more degrees, which relate to missionary work and religious education, were added in 2004.
In August of 2013, it was announced that Calvary Baptist Seminary would be closing at the end of the upcoming academic year.
It graduated its last class of 42 students on May 16, 2014.
Its building was repurposed as Calvary Baptist Church.
The Biblioteca Cathariniana or Cateriniana is a public library in Pisa, region of Tuscany, Italy.
It is affiliated with the Archbishop's Seminary (Seminario Arcivescovile).
The library was founded in the 13th-century in the Dominican convent of Santa Caterina d’Alessandria.
The convent of Santa Caterina was affiliated with scholars such as Giordano da Rivalto, Bartolomeo da San Concordio, and Domenico Cavalca, which fomented the religious education.
A nucleus of the collection was the donation of 61 codexes by Fra Proino di Orlandino da Fabro, cofounder of the monastery and colleague of Thomas Aquinas.
After the suppression of monasteries in 1783, the collection acquired part of the library of Guido Grandi from the Camaldolese Monastery of San Michele in Borgo.
In 1784, this monastery was suppressed but the Archbishop obtained the present site for the Seminary of the diocese.
The collection of the Barnabite Convent of San Frediano and the collections of 18th-century archbishop Francesco Frosini and teh 19th-century archbishop/cardinal Cosimo Corsi were added.
There is a modern and antique collection.
The modern collection has over 20,000 volumes from 1830 onward, including 150 journals no longer published.
It is particularly rich in theology, patristic and more recent church history.
But also has collections in anthropology, philosophy, sociology, pedagogy, and psychology.
It possesses the entire collection of the Osservatore Romano.
The antique collection has nearly 12,000 books, includin 2000 from the 15th century, 98 incunaboli, and 222 manuscript books.
Seminaries of Maulbronn and Blaubeuren (Evangelische Seminare Maulbronn und Blaubeuren) in Baden-Württemberg, Germany, are two Gymnasien (high schools) and Protestant boarding schools in the Württemberg tradition.
Until 2008, grades 9 and 10 were taught in the former Maulbronn Abbey, and Grades 11 through 13 in Blaubeuren, partly in cooperation with the Gymnasium Blaubeuren ("Blaubeuren High School").
As of 2013, the two schools exist independently of each other.
While both schools share their commitment to classical (Latin, Greek and Hebrew) and modern languages, music and religious education, the Maulbronn seminary especially focuses on the European culture tradition, whereas Blaubeuren places special emphasis on internationalism and the interdisciplinary dialogue between theology and science.
The seminaries were founded as Protestant schools in 1556 by Christoph von Württemberg in order to provide a broad education for gifted boys.
Since the schools first admitted girls in 1969, the seminaries have become a leading co-educational boarding school for talented pupils.
The alumni of the seminary have included:
Hartmut Hegeler (born 11 June 1946 in Bremen) is a German Protestant pastor and author, who is engaged to exonerate the victims of the witch hunt in Europe and has a homepage about Anton Praetorius.
Hegeler attended school in Bielefeld and was an exchange student in Senior High School in Renton, Washington in 1964.
He studied theology in Germany in Bethel, at the university of Marburg and Heidelberg.
As a vicar of the Evangelical Church of Westphalia he was in India and as pastor he served in Recklinghausen.
1974-1976 he worked in the field of development aid in North Yemen.
1976-1982 he was parish pastor in Dortmund, afterwards he worked as a pastor and religious education teacher in a vocational training college in Unna, North Rhine-Westphalia, where he lives.
Since 2010 he is retired.
Questions of his students in 2001 about the persecution of witches were the impulse for his studies on this subject: writing books and holding lectures.
He is fighting for the exonoration of the victims of the witchcraft trials, that they should be given back their dignity as human beings and as Christians.
Places of remembrance should give witness to their fate.
There have been many reports in the media about his activities.
A seminary, theological college, divinity school is an educational institution for educating students (sometimes called seminarians) in theology, generally to prepare them for ordination as clergy or for other ministry.
The English word is taken from the Latin seminarium, translated as seed-bed, an image taken from the Council of Trent document Cum adolescentium aetas which called for the first modern seminaries.
In the West the term now refers to Roman Catholic educational institutes and has widened to include other Christian denominations and American Jewish institutions.
The establishment of modern seminaries resulted from Roman Catholic reforms of the Counter-Reformation after the Council of Trent.
The Tridentine seminaries placed great emphasis on personal discipline as well as the teaching of philosophy as a preparation for theology.
Some seminaries elect to acquire higher education accreditation.
In North America, four entities that accredit religious schools in particular are recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation: Association of Advanced Rabbinical and Talmudic Schools, Association for Biblical Higher Education, Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada, and Transnational Association of Christian Colleges and Schools.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints sponsors religious education programs for secondary school students which are referred to as seminaries.
In general use, a seminary can be a secular institution, or part of an institution, designated for specialized training, e.g.
a graduate course.
It has occasionally been used for military academies, though this use is not well attested after the nineteenth century.
In some countries, the term seminary is also used for secular schools of higher education that train teachers; in the nineteenth century, many female seminaries were established in the United States.
Jamiul Uloom Jawadia, also known as Jawadia Arabic College, is a Deeni Madarasa (religious educational institution) of Shia Muslims in Banaras (Varanasi) India.Major course of studies include Jurisprudence, Theology and Islamic Literature.
It was founded in 1928 by Munaitiq-e-Zaman Maulana Syed Mohammad Sajjad Al-Husaini, the elder son of Jawad-ul-Ulama Ayatollah Syed Ali Jawad Al-Husaini.
The main goal of its establishment was the advance provision of especial courses for higher Islamic studies.
Before it was started, founder Maulana Sajjad Al-Husaini made a public appeal to support it financially due to limited resources, obtaining donations from the people of Banaras.
The present constitution of Jamiul-Uloom Jawadia was written by Alam-ul-Aalaam Ayatullah Syed Muzaffar Husain Al-Husaini, who was the first "Haadi" (supreme authority) of its managing body, after the death of Maulana Syed Mohammad Sajjad Al-Husaini.
After him the second "Haadi" was Aal-e-Jawad-ul-Ulama Mulla Syed Mohammad Tahir Al-Husaini, followed by Maulana Syed Ahmad Hasan (Imam-e-Jum'ah of Banaras).
Over the years, this college produced many religious research scholars and Islamic clerics.
The last degree awarded to the students is "Fakhr-ul-Afazil".
During the principalship of Zafar-ul-Millat Ayatollah Syed Zafar-ul-Hasan Rizvi there was construction at the college.
He also produced a religious monthly magazine, "AL-JAWAD" as an organ for Jamiul-Uloom Jawadia in 1950.
He was the third principal who was appointed directly by the supreme authority, Maulana Syed Muzaffar Husain Al-Husaini.
° Following are the principals of Jawadia Arabic College: In early 1930s, Jawadia sent the resident Ulema to the Jamaats of East Africa, Madagascar and Somnalia.
Johann Baptist Reus, S.J.
or João Batista Reus, S.J.
(July 10, 1868 - July 21, 1947) was a Jesuit priest and a German-Brazilian religious leader.
John Baptist Reus was born to John and Ana Margarida Reus, on 10 July 1868, in Pottenstein, Bavaria, the eighth child of an 11 children.
His parents, gave him excellent religious education.
After completing a year of required military service, he resigned his commission 1890 and entered the Seminary of Bamberg, with an eye to eventually joining the Jesuits.
He was ordained priest in 1893 entered the Order shortly thereafter.
Reus was ordained a priest in 1893, joined the Society of Jesus and was then sent to Brazil.
He was a theology teacher for many years at the Cristo Rei college, located in the city of São Leopoldo in the state of Rio Grande do Sul.
His autobiography and Diary, written in obedience to superiors, record mystical graces, and visions.
He preferred to celebrate Mass in private chapel because of his many ecstasies during Mass.
Only after fifty years as a member of the priesthood did he agree to celebrate Mass in a public chapel, because a Religion Community asked him to.
He died in São Leopoldo, Brazil.
He wrote many books about theology and the natural sciences in many languages: in Portuguese, Spanish, German, Italian and English.
His Diário Espiritual (spiritual diary) and Autobiografia (autobiography) reveal his unique mystical state of being.
His "Liturgy Course" was a classical text-book used by priests for the purpose of learning the liturgy.
Padre Reus is considered a saint by many Catholics of the region.
The letter by 10 academicians (short of "Open letter from the Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences to the President" ) is an open letter to the President of the Russian Federation in which ten notable scientists express their concern about rapid clericalization of Russian society.
It was published on July 22, 2007.
The letter was intended to warn both the society and the government about the growing influence of the Russian Orthodox Church and its expansion into many fields of social life, particularly into the state education system, which is strictly prohibited under the Russian Constitution.
The letter addresses the inadmissibility of "theology" being added to the science fields list of Higher Attestation Commission.
Such an idea was proposed in the resolution of the 11th Russian national synod ( ).
The Russian orthodox church tried to introduce the basics of religious education into the public education system.
Church leaders proposed to include a corresponding discipline into school curriculum.
The Eleventh Russian national assembly took a resolution, expressing a hope that the basics of Christian teaching would be obligatory in schools.
Authors mention an order (letter) by Patriarch Alexey the Second in which he states "if we have difficulty introducing 'Basics of Russian Orthodox Faith', we can simply call it 'Basics of Russian Orthodox Culture'.
In this case the course certainly won't meet any objections from teachers and principals, raised under atheistic rule."
The letter lead to a nationwide discussion on church and state interaction.
Previously, corresponding issues drew little public attention.
The Russian Orthodox Church stated that it "always appreciated science and continues to appreciate and respect science nowadays".
The Patriarch, commenting on the letter said that "the church strictly abides to the Constitution.
Neither the Church interferes into the state matters, nor the state interferes with religious affairs".
Both the letter and its signatories were criticised by various orthodox activists.
The religious movement "Natsyonalny Sobor" ( ) accused Vitaly Ginzburg of hate speech.
Celestyn Myślenta (also Mislenski; 27 March 1588, in Kuty (Kutten), Ducal Prussia &ndash; 20 April 1653, in Königsberg (Królewiec)) was a Polish Lutheran theologian and rector of the University of Königsberg.
Celestyn was the son of Mateusz Myślenta (also Myslonius) and Eufroza née Wiercinska.
His father was once employed by Duke Radziwill and belonged to the Polish nobility.
As a stipendiary of the duke of Prussia he studied at University Königsberg, then became Lutheran pastor in Kuty from 1581-1599.
Celestyn studied Latin in Wegorzewo (Angerburg), Frydląd (Friedland in Prussia) and at the university of Königsberg.
In 1609, he relocated to Wittenberg to study Protestant theology under Leonhard Hutter, Friedrich Balduin and Friedrich Meisner.
In 1615, he spent some months in Leipzig and later moved to Gießen to study at the local university, where his disputation in Hebrew drew much attention.
His knowledge of oriental languages was gained during his stay in Frankfurt under Christoph Helvig, Johannes Gisenius and in conversations with the Jews of Frankfurt, who introduced him to rabbinical literature.
He continued his studies in Gießen and received his doctorate in 1619.
During an educational journey he also visited the universities of Jena, Tübingen, Leiden, and Basel, where he broadened his knowledge of oriental languages under Johannes Buxtorf and Thomas van Erpe.
In 1619, he was appointed by Prussian duke John Sigismund to the university of Königsberg as a professor extraordinarius of theology, and in 1621 as professor ordinarius of Hebrew.
He served as an assessor for the Consistory of Sambia from 1622, the pastor of the Königsberg Cathedral beginning in 1626, and the superintendent for religious education in the Sambia region from 1640.
In 1637 or 1638, he married Regina Winter von Sternenfeld, widow of Henning Wegner, a former jurist at the university.
As a superintendent, he insisted on the introduction of Polish as language of instruction, in addition to Latin.
Kariattil Mar Ousep (5 May 1742 – 10 September 1786) was the first native Indian to be appointed as Archbishop of the Syrian Catholics in the territory now comprising Kerala, India.
Kariattil was born at Alengad, near Aluva in present day central Kerala.
He had his initial religious education at the Seminary at Alengad.
Later he was sent to the Propaganda College of Pontifical Urban University, Rome, in 1755 when he was barely 13 years old.
There he was ordained as a priest, and he took Doctorate in Philosophy and Theology from there.
He returned to India in 1766.
He was then appointed as a Malpan at Alangad Seminary.
Kariattil Malpan took great efforts for the reunion of the Saint Thomas Christians (also known as Syrian Christians or Nasrani) who had split following the Coonen Cross Oath.
He made the historic journey to Rome in 1778 together with Paremmakkal Thoma Kathanar to represent the matter with the church authorities there.
Kariattil Malpan was consecrated at Lisbon in 1783 and was appointed as Archbishop of Cranganore (Kodungalloor).
However, on his way back to India, he died at Goa on 10 September 1786.
He was initially buried there and later his mortal remains were transferred to Alengad and were re-interred at St. Mary's Syro-Malabar Catholic Church, Alangad in 1961.
He is the author of two books, viz.
Vedatharkkam (Dialectics on Theology) (1768) and Noticias do Reino do Malabar (1780).
David Charles Cunningham Watson, (20 February 1920 – 12 January 2004) was an English teacher, author and creationist, born in Bharatpur, India.
Watson graduated from the University of Cambridge with First class honours in Classics, winning the Carus Greek Testament Prize in 1947.
He was later a Senior Scholar at Trinity College.
He then served as a missionary in India, teaching at a Christian school near Madras (now Chennai).
There he came into contact with Hannington Enoch, Professor of Zoology at Presidency College, whose articles Watson cited as influential on his own creationist efforts.
In 1951 he was a founding member and the magazine editor of the Inter Collegiate Evangelical Union (ICEU) of Madras, which was one of a number of movements that later formed the Union of Evangelical Students of India.
In 1975 and 1976 he published The Great Brain Robbery and Myths and Miracles, which were later translated into other languages including German, Spanish and Finnish.
In 1976 Watson, who was a member of the Evolution Protest Movement, lost his job teaching religious education at a state school in the United Kingdom.
Although creationists publicly reported that this dismissal was for refusing "to teach that Genesis is myth" and rallied to his support, they privately intimated opinions about his inability to control pupils classroom behaviour and failure to follow the prescribed syllabus.
The Times Educational Supplement reported that students interrupted his class with shouts of "rubbish".
He died in Worthing in 2004.
Alister Edgar McGrath (born 23 January 1953) is a Northern Irish theologian, priest, intellectual historian, scientist, and Christian apologist.
He currently holds the Andreas Idreos Professorship in Science and Religion in the Faculty of Theology and Religion at the University of Oxford, and is Professor of Divinity at Gresham College.
He was previously Professor of Theology, Ministry, and Education at King's College London and Head of the Centre for Theology, Religion and Culture, Professor of Historical Theology at the University of Oxford, and was principal of Wycliffe Hall, Oxford, until 2005.
He is an Anglican priest (that is, ordained within the Church of England).
Aside from being a faculty member at Oxford, McGrath has also taught at Cambridge University and is a Teaching Fellow at Regent College.
McGrath holds three doctorates from the University of Oxford, a DPhil in Molecular Biophysics, a Doctor of Divinity in Theology and a Doctor of Letters in Intellectual History.
McGrath is noted for his work in historical theology, systematic theology, and the relationship between science and religion, as well as his writings on apologetics.
He is also known for his opposition to New Atheism and antireligionism and his advocacy of theological critical realism.
Among his best-known books are The Twilight of Atheism, The Dawkins Delusion, Dawkins' God: Genes, Memes, and the Meaning of Life, and A Scientific Theology.
He is also the author of a number of popular textbooks on theology.
McGrath was born in Belfast, Northern Ireland, and grew up in Downpatrick, County Down, where he attended Down High School.
In September 1966 he became a pupil at the Methodist College Belfast, where his studies focused on mathematics, physics and chemistry.
He went up to Wadham College, Oxford, in 1971 and gained first class honours in chemistry in 1975.
He began research in molecular biophysics in the Oxford University Department of Biochemistry under the supervision of Professor Sir George Radda, FRS and was elected to an E.P.A.
Cephalosporin Research Studentship at Linacre College, Oxford, for the academic year 1975-6, and to a Domus Senior Scholarship at Merton College, Oxford, for the period 1976-8.
During these three years, he carried out scientific research while studying for the Oxford University Final Honour School of Theology.
He was awarded an Oxford D.Phil.
for his research in molecular biophysics (December 1977), and gained first class honours in Theology in June 1978.
McGrath then left Oxford to work at Cambridge University, where he also studied for ordination in the Church of England.
In September 1980, he was ordained deacon and began ministry as a curate at St Leonard's Parish Church, Wollaton, Nottingham, in the English East Midlands.
He was ordained priest at Southwell Minster in September 1981.
In 1983, he was appointed lecturer in Christian doctrine and ethics at Wycliffe Hall, Oxford, and a member of the Oxford University Faculty of Theology.
He spent the fall semester of 1990 as the Ezra Squire Tipple Visiting Professor of Historical Theology at the Divinity School of Drew University, Madison, New Jersey.
McGrath was elected University Research Lecturer in Theology at Oxford University in 1993 and also served as research professor of theology at Regent College, Vancouver, from 1993 to 1999.
In 1995, he was elected Principal of Wycliffe Hall and in 1999 was awarded a personal chair in theology by Oxford University with the title "Professor of Historical Theology".
He was awarded the Oxford degree of Doctor of Divinity in 2001 for his research in historical and systematic theology, and was a founding member of the International Society for Science and Religion.
On 1 September 2008 McGrath took up the Chair of Theology, Ministry and Education in the Department of Education and Professional Studies at King's College London.
In 2010 McGrath was included in "The 20 Most Brilliant Christian Professors" list.
In 2013 he was awarded his third doctorate from Oxford University, a DLitt, Division of Humanities, for research into science and religion, and natural theology.
He is married to Joanna Collicutt McGrath and they have two grown up children.
In 2014 McGrath was appointed the 32nd Professor of Divinity at Gresham College, a position dating back to 1597.
In this position he is to deliver a series of free public lectures on Science, Faith, and God: The Big Questions, in which he hopes to present "a coherent exploration of how Christian Theology can engage with concerns and debates within modern culture, focussing on one of its leading elements – the natural sciences."
A former atheist, McGrath accepts evolution.
In 2004 McGrath suggested in The Twilight of Atheism that atheism was in decline.
He has been highly critical of Richard Dawkins, calling him "embarrassingly ignorant of Christian theology".
His book: The Dawkins Delusion?
– a response to Dawkins's The God Delusion – was published by SPCK in February 2007, and the two had public debate on the topic, "Does religious belief damage the health of a society, or is it necessary to provide the moral and ethical foundations of a healthy society?"
McGrath has also debated with Daniel Dennett, at the Greer-Heard Point-Counterpoint Forum (February 2007) in New Orleans, as well as Christopher Hitchens at Georgetown University.
In March 2007, McGrath debated Peter Atkins at the University of Edinburgh on the topic 'Darwin and Humanity: Should We Rid the Mind of God?'
In November 2007 later that year, he debated Susan Blackmore on the existence of God.
McGrath has debated David Helfand at the Veritas Forum on whether belief in God is a delusion.
In 2011, he debated Stephen Law on the topic 'Why Won't God Go Away?'
He was interviewed by Richard Dawkins about his book Dawkins' God and faith in general for the television documentary The Root of All Evil?
McGrath's interview was not included in the final cut, but the unedited footage is available online.
He states that he is not opposed to atheism itself, but rather the views of atheism held by people such as Dawkins.
Among McGrath's more notable works are:
Sekha is a large village in Barnala district, Punjab, India.
It is located 7&nbsp;km to the east of Barnala on Bathinda-Patiala railway line and Barnala-Dhuri road.
It is a medium-sized village with a population of around 10,000.
All the basic amenities are present at a commutable distance.
Sekha used to be a cluster of 22 villages called 'Bahia' (in Punjabi meaning composed of twenty-two entities).
The people living here were of Sidhu clan.
Once Guru Teg Bahadur ji, the ninth Sikh Guru, arrived in the 'Bahia' during his Malwa Visit.
But the ruler of 'Bahia' refused to give the Guru a piece of land to live on for few days.
The ruler asked the Guru to leave the place.
Guru Teg Bahadur got angry and cursed the 'Bahia' by saying "Bahia Hoju Thehia"(Punjabi: ਬਾਹੀਆ ਹੋਜੂ ਥੇਹਿਆ) meaning- "Bahia will collapse into a heap" Due to his curse the whole of Bahia turned into a heap of debris.
This Theh (Punjabi: ਥੇਹ) still exists to the west of the main village and the place where Guru Teg Bahadur ji meditated has been turned into a beautiful Gurudwara named 'Gurudwara Patshahi Naumi, Sekha'.
Every year on 22 Poh(Punjabi Calendar) i.e.
in early January a three-day fair is held in the village in remembrance of the Coming of Guru Teg Bahadur ji to the village.
Later on, a new village to the west of Bahia was built which is now known as Sekha.
There are many religious places in the village.
Gurudwara Patshahi Naumi (Gurudwara of the ninth Guru) towards the west of the village on Barnala road.
This is the place where the ninth Guru meditated during his visit to the village.
There is another Gurudwara near the village railway station.
Near the Grain Market, there is a famous Tilla of Baba Tehaldas.
It is a multi-religious place with a Temple, Gurudwara et al.
in it.
In the heart of the village, there is a Memorial Gurudwara of Bhai Moola Singh.
There are numerous other religious places in the village.
•Road : There are well maintained roads in the village and people have an option to use the regular bus service which plies between Barnala and the neighbouring town of Dhuri(Sangrur) since the village lies on the Barnala-Dhuri road.
Other than this, taxis are readily available as well at the local taxi stand located near the market towards the western end of the village.
•Rail : Sekha railway station lies roughly towards the north of the village and is also in very close proximity to the neighbouring villages of Harbanspura and Jhaloor.
The station lies on the Bathinda-Patiala railway line.
The history of religion refers to the written record of human religious experiences and ideas.
This period of religious history begins with the invention of writing about 5,200 years ago (3200 BCE).
The prehistory of religion relates to a study of religious beliefs that existed prior to the advent of written records.
The timeline of religion is a comparative chronology of religion.
The word "religion" as it is used today does not have an obvious pre-colonial translation into non-European languages.
The anthropologist Daniel Dubuisson writes that "what the West and the history of religions in its wake have objectified under the name 'religion' is ... something quite unique, which could be appropriate only to itself and its own history".
The history of other cultures' interaction with the religious category is therefore their interaction with an idea that first developed in Europe under the influence of Christianity.
The school of religious history called the Religionsgeschichtliche Schule was a 19th-century German school of thought which was the first to systematically study religion as a socio-cultural phenomenon.
It depicted religion as evolving with human culture, from primitive Polytheism to ethical monotheism.
The Religionsgeschichtliche Schule appeared at a time when scholarly study of the Bible and church history was flourishing in Germany and elsewhere (see higher criticism, also called the historical-critical method).
The study of religion is important because it has often shaped civilizations' law and moral codes, social structure, art and music.
The 19th century saw a dramatic increase in knowledge about other cultures and religions, and also the establishment of economic and social histories of progress.
The "history of religions" school sought to account for this religious diversity by connecting it with the social and economic situation of a particular group.
Typically, religions were divided into stages of progression from simple to complex societies, especially from polytheistic to monotheistic and from extempore to organized.
Religions can be classified as circumcising and non-circumcising, proselytizing (attempting to convert people of other religion) and non-proselytizing.
Many religions share common beliefs.
The earliest evidence of religious ideas dates back several hundred thousand years to the Middle and Lower Paleolithic periods.
Archaeologists refer to apparent intentional burials of early Homo sapiens from as early as 300,000 years ago as evidence of religious ideas.
Other evidence of religious ideas include symbolic artifacts from Middle Stone Age sites in Africa.
However, the interpretation of early paleolithic artifacts, with regard to how they relate to religious ideas, remains controversial.
Archeological evidence from more recent periods is less controversial.
A number of artifacts from the Upper Paleolithic (50,000-13,000) are generally interpreted by scientists as representing religious ideas.
Examples of Upper Paleolithic remains associated with religious beliefs include the lion man, the Venus figurines, cave paintings from Chauvet Cave and the elaborate ritual burial from Sungir.
In the 19th century, various theories were proposed regarding the origin of religion, supplanting the earlier claims of Christianity of urreligion.
Early theorists Edward Burnett Tylor and Herbert Spencer proposed the concept of animism, while archaeologist John Lubbock used the term "fetishism".
Meanwhile, religious scholar Max Müller theorized that religion began in hedonism and folklorist Wilhelm Mannhardt suggested that religion began in "naturalism", by which he meant mythological explanation of natural events.
All of these theories have since been widely criticized; there is no broad consensus regarding the origin of religion.
Through the bulk of human evolution, humans lived in small nomadic bands practicing a hunter gatherer lifestyle.
The emergence of complex and organized religions can be traced to the period when humans abandoned their nomadic hunter gatherer lifestyles in order to begin farming during the Neolithic period.
The transition from foraging bands to states and empires resulted in more specialized and developed forms of religion that were reflections of the new social and political environments.
While bands and small tribes possess supernatural beliefs, these beliefs are adapted to smaller populations.
The religions of the Neolithic peoples provide evidence of some of the earliest known forms of organized religions.
The Neolithic settlement of Çatalhöyük, in what is now Turkey, was home to about 7000 people and remains the largest known settlement from the Neolithic period.
James Mellaart, who excavated the site, believed that Çatalhöyük was the spiritual center of central Anatolia.
A striking feature of Çatalhöyük are its female figurines.
Mellaart, the original excavator, argued that these well-formed, carefully made figurines, carved and molded from marble, blue and brown limestone, schist, calcite, basalt, alabaster, and clay, represented a female deity of the Great Goddess type.
Although a male deity existed as well, “…statues of a female deity far outnumber those of the male deity, who moreover, does not appear to be represented at all after Level&nbsp;VI”.
To date, eighteen levels have been identified.
These careful figurines were found primarily in areas Mellaart believed to be shrines.
One, however – a stately goddess seated on a throne flanked by two female lions – was found in a grain bin, which Mellaart suggests might have been a means of ensuring the harvest or protecting the food supply.
The Pyramid Texts from ancient Egypt are one of the oldest known religious texts in the world dating to between 2400-2300 BCE.
Writing played a major role in sustaining organized religion by standardizing religious ideas regardless of time or location.
Organized religion emerged as a means of providing social and economic stability to large populations through the following ways: The period from 900 to 200 BCE has been described by historians as the axial age, a term coined by German philosopher Karl Jaspers.
According to Jaspers, this is the era of history when "the spiritual foundations of humanity were laid simultaneously and independently... And these are the foundations upon which humanity still subsists today".
Intellectual historian Peter Watson has summarized this period as the foundation of many of humanity's most influential philosophical traditions, including monotheism in Persia and Canaan, Platonism in Greece, Buddhism, Jainism in India, and Confucianism and Taoism in China.
These ideas would become institutionalized in time, for example Ashoka's role in the spread of Buddhism, or the role of platonic philosophy in Christianity at its foundation.
Present-day world religions established themselves throughout Eurasia during the Middle Ages by: Christianization of the Western world; Buddhist missions to East Asia; the decline of Buddhism in the Indian subcontinent; and the spread of Islam throughout the Middle East, Central Asia, North Africa and parts of Europe and India.
During the Middle Ages, Muslims were in conflict with Zoroastrians during the Islamic conquest of Persia; Christians were in conflict with Muslims during the Byzantine-Arab Wars, Crusades, Reconquista, Ottoman wars in Europe and Inquisition; Shamans were in conflict with Buddhists, Taoists, Muslims and Christians during the Mongol invasions; and Muslims were in conflict with Hindus and Sikhs during Muslim conquest in the Indian subcontinent.
Many medieval religious movements emphasized mysticism, such as the Cathars and related movements in the West, the Jews in Spain (see Zohar), the Bhakti movement in India and Sufism in Islam.
Monotheism reached definite forms in Christian Christology and in Islamic Tawhid.
Hindu monotheist notions of Brahman likewise reached their classical form with the teaching of Adi Shankara.
European colonisation during the 15th to 19th centuries resulted in the spread of Christianity to Sub-Saharan Africa, the Americas, Australia and the Philippines.
The invention of the printing press in the 15th century played a major role in the rapid spread of the Protestant Reformation under leaders such as Martin Luther and John Calvin.
Wars of religion followed, culminating in the Thirty Years War which ravaged central Europe, 1618-1648.
The 18th century saw the beginning of secularisation in Europe, gaining momentum after the French Revolution.
By the late 20th century religion had declined in most of Europe.
In the 20th century, the regimes of Communist Eastern Europe and Communist China were anti-religious.
A great variety of new religious movements originated in the 20th century, many proposing syncretism of elements of established religions.
Adherence to such new movements is limited, however, remaining below 2% worldwide in the 2000s (decade).
Adherents of the classical world religions account for more than 75% of the world's population, while adherence to indigenous tribal religions has fallen to 4%.
As of 2005, an estimated 14% of the world's population identifies as nonreligious.
The term new religious movement (NRM) can identify a religious faith or an ethical, spiritual, or philosophical movement of recent origin that does not form part of an established denomination, church, or religious body.
Ibn Arafa, born Mohammed bin Mohammed bin Arafa al-Werghemmi, in 1316 in Tunis and died in 1401 in the same city, was a Tunisian Imam, the most illustrious representative of Maliki Islam to the Hafsid period.
From the south-east of Tunisia, his knowledge of law, of grammar, of rhetoric, of mathematics, and medicine enabled him to lead the prestigious Al-Zaytuna Mosque and the University of Ez-Zitouna for several years.
Staunch defender of Maliki Islam, he did not hesitate to come into direct conflict with several Sufi of his time as the esoteric and religious practices he witnessed were beyond the precepts of Islam and the understanding of the faithful.
He also had conflicts with Ibn Khaldun whom he suspected had non-religious motives.
Khaldun, in turn, accused Ibn Arafa of being jealous of his popularity.
As a theologian, Ibn Arafa was a strict and pure Maliki, and a powerful figure especially in Tunisia.
He was also the author of numerous books on law, theology, and logic.
Such books are stored at Zaytuna, in Tunisia.
At his death in 1401, he was buried in Djellaz Cemetery located in the old medina of Tunis which has been preserved as the oldest historical monument of the state.
An Act to amend the Criminal Code (hate propaganda), popularly known as Bill C-250, its title during the second and third sessions of the 37th Canadian parliament, was a Canadian Private Member's Bill that amended the Criminal Code to add penalties for publicly inciting hatred against or encouraging the genocide of people on the basis of sexual orientation and added a defence for the expression of good-faith opinions based on religious texts.
Prior to this amendment, the Criminal Code prohibited the promotion of genocide and the public incitement of hatred against groups identifiable by colour, race, religion, and ethnic origin; C-250 expanded coverage of these existing provisions to include groups identifiable on the basis of sexual orientation.
The bill also expanded one of the defences available to persons charged with the incitement of hatred, allowing for the expression of good-faith opinions based on religious texts, in addition to the preexisting defence allowing the good-faith expression of opinions on religious subjects.
C-250 was first introduced in 2001 into the 37th Parliament, 1st Session as Bill C-415 by New Democratic MP Svend Robinson.
Following the end of that session, the bill was reintroduced as C-250 in the 37th Parliament, 2nd Session.
It passed the House of Commons on September 17, 2003, but was not passed by the Senate before the end of the session.
The bill was again reintroduced in the 37th Parliament, 3rd Session, passing both the House and Senate.
Royal Assent was granted on April 29, 2004.
As with all Canadian legislation, this act has equal force in French in which it is called La Loi modifiant le Code criminel (propagande haineuse).
Critics of the bill claimed that it would prohibit reciting various scripture condemning homosexuality, while supporters pointed out that the bill added an explicit defence against any charge of incitement of hatred for opinions expressed in good faith based on religious texts.
Critics of the law however, have expressed concern the courts will abrogate the religious loophole because "good faith" is not clearly defined.
Central Okanagan School District No 23 v Renaud, [1992] 2 S.C.R.
970 is a leading Supreme Court of Canada decision where the Court found that an employer was under a duty to accommodate the religious beliefs of employees to the point of undue hardship.
Larry Renaud was a unionized custodian in the Central Okanagan School District and a practicing Seventh-day Adventist.
Under an employee collective agreement Renaud was required to work on Friday evening, however, due to Renaud's faith he was forbidden from working sundown on Friday to sundown on Saturday.
He proposed several forms of accommodations where he would work Sunday to Thursday as a religious exception to the collective agreement.
The school board rejected the alternatives and eventually terminated his employment.
Renaud brought a complaint on the grounds that the board violated section 8 of the British Columbia Human Rights Act for discrimination based on religion.
The issues put to the Supreme Court was whether Renaud was indirectly discriminated against and whether the school was under any duty to accommodate him.
Justice Sopkina, writing for a unanimous Court, held that there was discrimination against Renaud.
Sopinka found that an employer was under a duty to accommodate employees religious beliefs short of undue hardship even despite any collective agreement or private contract.
Peter Brian Wells JCD STL (born 12 May 1963) has been the Assessor for General Affairs of the Secretariat of State, effectively deputy to the chief of staff, Archbishop Giovanni Angelo Becciu, since 2009.
He had previously served under Fernando Filoni, who held the post until May 2011.
Wells was born in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
He completed his studies in philosophy at Saint Meinrad Seminary College in Indiana.
He completed his studies in theology as a student at the Pontifical North American College in Rome.
He was ordained a priest on 12 July 1991 for the Diocese of Tulsa.
In 1990, he obtained a baccalaureate in theology from the Pontifical Gregorian University, later gaining a licentiate in theology at the Pontifical John Paul II Institute for Studies on Marriage and the Family in Rome, in 1992.
He received a licentiate and a doctorate in canon law from the Pontifical Gregorian University in 1998 and 1999.
At the same time he was a student at the elite Pontifical Ecclesiastical Academy.
After his ordination, he held the following positions: curate at Holy Family Cathedral in Tulsa, special secretary to the Bishop of Tulsa and vicar for religious education in the diocese.
He entered the diplomatic service of the Holy See on 1 July 1999, worked in the apostolic nunciature in Nigeria and, since 2002, at the Section for General Affairs of the Secretariat of State.
Wells was appointed to head the English desk in 2006.
Besides his native English, he speaks Italian, French, German and Spanish.
He was named assessor on 16 July 2009 when Gabriele Giordano Caccia was named apostolic nuncio to Lebanon the same day.
Speaking about his work as assessor of general affairs, he said his department is "like a chief of staff office for the pope," dealing with things like security issues and communications.
The department's job is to help Pope Francis and his representatives "have the ability to act freely in the world" and not be "impeded in their ministry," especially in reaching out to the most marginalized, he said Cables revealed as part of the Wikileaks scandal show how much diplomats rely on Wells for readings of the Vatican's take on sensitive issues, such as the Church's sexual abuse scandals.
Other players know the score, too.
In 2010, when parishioners in Boston wanted to appeal the closing of nine local parishes, they consulted a couple of canonists about the best way to get the Pope's attention, and the reply was to address the petition to Wells.
Pope Francis by chirograph named Msgr Wells secretary of the five-member Pontifical Commission responsible for investigating the Institute for the Works of Religion.
Cardinal Farina, S.D.B., is president of the commission and Cardinal Tauran is a member, Bishop Juan Ignacio Arrieta Ochoa de Chinchetru, serves as the coordinator while Professor Mary Ann Glendon is the final member.
He is at the same time the president of Financial Security Committee.
A parody religion or mock religion is a belief system that challenges spiritual convictions of others, often through humor, satire, or burlesque (literary ridicule).
Often created to achieve a specific purpose related to another belief system, a parody religion can be a parody of several religions, sects, gurus, cults, or new religious movements at the same time or even a parody of no particular religion, instead parodying the concept of religious belief itself.
In some parody religions, emphasis is on having fun and being a convenient excuse for pleasant social interaction among the like-minded (e.g., the Church of the SubGenius).
Other parody religions target a specific religion, sect, cult, or new religious movement.
One approach to parody religion aims to highlight deficiencies in particular pro-religious arguments — the thinking being that if a given argument can also be used to support a clear parody, then the original argument is clearly flawed.
An example of this is the Flying Spaghetti Monster, which parodies the equal time argument employed by intelligent design and Creationism.
Occasionally, a parody religion may offer ordination by mail or on-line at a nominal fee, seeking equal recognition for this clergy under freedom of religion provisions, including the 1st and 14th amendments to the United States Constitution.
A few US states have permitted The Church of the Latter-Day Dude or Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster officiants to legally solemnise marriage.
Parody religions also have sought the same reasonable accommodation legally afforded to mainstream religions, including religious-specific garb or headgear.
Several religions that are classified as parody religions have a number of relatively serious followers who embrace the perceived absurdity of these religions as spiritually significant, a decidedly post-modern approach to religion.
For instance, in Discordianism, it can be hard to tell whether even these "serious" followers are not just taking part in an even bigger joke.
This joke, in turn, might be part of a greater path to enlightenment, and so on ad infinitum.
The following were created as parodies of particular religious beliefs: The following are post-modern religions that may be seen as elaborate parodies of 'real' religions: Many atheists, including Richard Dawkins, use parody religions such as those of the Flying Spaghetti Monster and the Invisible Pink Unicorn — as well as ancient gods like Zeus and Thor — as modern versions of Russell's teapot to argue that the burden of proof is on the believer, not the atheist.
Dawkins also created a parody of the criticism of atheism, coining the term athorism, or the firm belief that the Norse deity Thor does not exist.
The intention is to emphasize the claim that atheism is not a form of religious creed, but instead merely denial of beliefs.
A common challenge against atheism is the idea that atheism is itself a form of "faith", a belief without proof.
The theist might say "No one can prove that God does not exist, therefore an atheist is exercising faith by asserting that there is no God."
Dawkins argues that by replacing the word "God" with "Thor" one should see that the assertion is fallacious.
The burden of proof, he claims, rests upon the believer in the supernatural, not upon the non-believer who considers such things unlikely.
Athorism is an attempt to illustrate through absurdity that there is no logical difference between disbelieving any particular religion.
A nature religion is a religious movement that believes the natural world is an embodiment of divinity, sacredness or spiritual power.
Nature religions include indigenous religions practiced in various parts of the world by cultures who consider the environment to be imbued with spirits and other sacred entities.
It also includes conteporary Pagan faiths such as Wicca, Neo-Druidism and the Goddess movement, which are primarily concentrated in Europe and North America.
The term "nature religion" was first coined by the American religious studies scholar Catherine Albanese, who used it in her work Nature Religion in America: From the Algonkian Indians to the New Age (1991) and later went on to use it in other studies.
Following on from Albanese's development of the term it has since been used by other academics working in the discipline.
Catherine Albanese described nature religion as "a symbolic center and the cluster of beliefs, behaviours, and values that encircles it", deeming it to be useful for shining a light on aspects of history that are rarely viewed as religious.
In a paper of his on the subject, the Canadian religious studies scholar Peter Beyer described "nature religion" as a "useful analytical abstraction" to refer to "any religious belief or practice in which devotees consider nature to be the embodiment of divinity, sacredness, transcendence, spiritual power, or whatever cognate term one wishes to use".
He went on to note that in this way nature religion was not an "identifiable religious tradition" such as Buddhism or Christianity are, but that it instead covers "a range of religious and quasi-religious movements, groups and social networks whose participants may or may not identify with one of the many constructed religions of global society which referred to many other nature religion."
Peter Beyer noted the existence of a series of common characteristics which he believed were shared by different nature religions.
He remarked that although "one must be careful not to overgeneralise", he suspected that there were a series of features which "occur sufficiently often" in those nature religions known to recorded scholarship to constitute a pattern.
The first of these common characteristics was nature religion's "comparative resistance to institutionalisation and legitimisation in terms of identifiable socio-religious authorities and organisations", meaning that nature religionists rarely formed their religious beliefs into large, visible socio-political structures such as churches.
Furthermore, Beyer noted, nature religionists often held a "concomitant distrust of and even eschewing of politically orientated power".
Instead of this, he felt that among nature religious communities, there was "a valuing of community as non-hierarchical" and a "conditional optimism with regard to human capacity and the future."
In the sphere of the environment, Beyer noted that nature religionists held to a "holistic conception of reality" and "a valorisation of physical place as vital aspects of their spiritualities".
Similarly, Beyer noted the individualism which was favoured by nature religionists.
He remarked that those adhering to such beliefs typically had respect for "charismatic and hence purely individual authority" and place a "strong emphasis on individual paths" which led them to believe in "the equal value of individuals and groups".
Along similar lines, he also commented on the "strong experiential basis" to nature religionist beliefs "where personal experience is a final arbiter of truth or validity".
In April 1996, the University of Lancaster in North West England held a conference on contemporary Paganism entitled "Nature Religion Today: Western Paganism, Shamanism and Esotericism in the 1990s", and ultimately led to the publication of an academic anthology of the same name two years later.
This book, Nature Religion Today: Paganism in the Modern World, was edited by three figures at the University's Department of Religious Studies, a postgraduate named Joanne Pearson, and two professors, Richard H. Roberts and Geoffrey Samuel.
Ladele v London Borough of Islington [2009] EWCA Civ 1357 is a UK labour law case concerning discrimination against same sex couples by a religious person in a public office.
Ms Lillian Ladele worked as a registrar for marriages, births, and deaths for the London Borough of Islington.
Following the introduction of the Civil Partnership Act 2004, Islington designated all of its existing registrars as civil partnership registrars as well as marriages.
Ms Ladele objected to being required to officiate at civil partnership ceremonies due to her Christian beliefs.
Islington disciplined and threatened to dismiss her.
Ms Ladele claimed that this treatment was unlawfully discriminatory, and that she should not be required to perform civil partnerships, taking into account her religious beliefs.
The Employment Tribunal held that she had been directly and indirectly discriminated against, as well as harassed.
The Employment Appeals Tribunal reversed the decision, and Ms Ladele appealed to the Court of Appeal.
She claimed that allegations of direct discrimination and harassment should have been remitted.
Islington and Liberty as intervener argued there was no choice, given the Equality Act (Sexual Orientation) Regulations 2007 to do anything but require Ms Ladele to do her full duties.
Lord Dyson MR held there was no reason to remit the case on direct discrimination or harassment.
The Tribunal erred, because (1) it could not be discrimination to treat all employees in the same way (2) the appropriate comparator was a hypothetical someone who disliked gay people without it being due to a religious belief (3) looking at the plain words of regulation 5 it was clear that Ladele had not been harassed.
So far as indirect discrimination went, it was clear that the council had pursued a legitimate aim that all registrars should perform civil partnership duties as part of its dignity policy.
This is performing a purely secular task.
Furthermore, her view of marriage was not a core part of Ms Ladele’s religion.
The requirement to perform her job’s duties did not prevent her from worshipping as she wished.
It is clear that ECHR art 9 is a qualified right.
Ms Ladele’s views could not override the employer’s concern to ensure equal respect for the gay community.
‘As Lord Hoffmann put it in R(SB) v Governors of Denbigh High School ‘Article 9 does not require that one should be allowed to manifest one's religion at any time and place of one's own choosing’.’ Ms Ladele made an application to the European Court of Human Rights following the Court of Appeal's decision, claiming that the United Kingdom had discriminated against her on the basis of her religion, contrary to Article 14 taken together with Article 9 of the Convention.
She did not argue that her right to freedom of religion had itself been infringed.
Her case was joined with those of three other applicants who had brought similar claims against the UK, and the Court, sitting as a Chamber, delivered judgment in the case of Eweida and Others v. The United Kingdom [2013] ECHR 37 [1] Eweida v British Airways plc on 15 January 2013.
The Court dismissed her complaint, although two out of the seven judges dissented and would have upheld her complaint.
She sought permission to appeal against the decision to the Grand Chamber of the Court, but this permission was refused.
The judgment of the Chamber therefore became final on 27 May 2013.
Barronelle Stutzman is a Christian florist and business owner of Arlene's Flowers in Richland, Washington, United States.
She was involved in several controversial lawsuits which gained national attention due to both their religious and civil rights implications.
She has since appeared on TV as a public speaker advocating for religious freedom.
Ms. Stutzman was born in 1945 and resides in Richland, Washington.
She has eight children and 23 grandchildren.
The first two legal cases, Ingersoll v. Arlene's Flowers and State of Washington v. Arlene's Flowers were consolidated by Benton County Superior Court Judge Salvador Mendoza into a single case for purposes of discovery.
The first civil suit filed was Ingersoll v. Arlene's Flowers, in which a gay couple were denied floral arrangements for their wedding by Ms. Stutzman's business.
She had been servicing the couple for several years, and would have provided them the flowers, but based on her religious belief was unable to participate in beautifying the wedding.
The ACLU represented the couple, Robert Ingersoll and his partner Curt Freed, in the lawsuit against the small business on grounds of discrimination.
ACLU attorneys proposed a settlement in the suit if she publicly apologized, donated $5,000 to a local LGBT youth center and stopped refusing to service people due to sexual orientation.
The ADF countered the case stating the small business should not be required to violate deeply held religious beliefs.
The second lawsuit was a consumer protection suit, State of Washington v. Arlene's Flowers, filed by attorney general Bob Ferguson, in response to the civil lawsuit he read about on Facebook, in order to uphold Washington state's Consumer Protection Act.
The case would have been settled with a penalty of $2,000 under the Consumer Protection Act, a $1 payment for costs, and agreement not to discriminate in the future.
However, Ms. Stutzman responded that she would not comply, citing the state's constitution 'freedom of conscience in all matters of religious sentiment'.
On January 7, 2015 Benton County Superior Court Judge Alexander Ekstrom ruled she was personally liable, concluding that Stutzman must provide full wedding support for same-sex ceremonies, including custom design work to decorate the ceremony, delivery to the forum, staying at the ceremony to touch up arrangements, and assisting the wedding party.
The third lawsuit, Arlene's Flowers v. Ferguson, was filed as a countersuit by Ms. Stutzman to claim financial damages caused by the previous two lawsuits.
On February 18, 2015, Benton County Superior Court Judge Alexander Ekstrom ruled that she had violated the state's anti-discrimination law in both cases.
On February 19, 2015, Ms. Stutzman stated she would appeal the ruling.
On March 27, 2015 Judge Alexander Ekstrom ordered Ms. Stutzman to pay a $1,000 fine, plus $1 for court costs and fees.
Ms. Stutzman had received over $174,000 in individual donations on GoFundMe, prior to GoFundMe removing her donation page due to an alleged terms of service violation.
Kenneth I. Pargament (born November 3, 1950) is an emeritus professor of psychology at Bowling Green State University (Ohio, USA).
Born in 1950 in Washington, D.C., Pargament received his Ph.
D from the University of Maryland in 1977.
He currently studies various relationships between religion, psychological well-being and stress, as well as other closely related subjects.
He is also licensed in Clinical Psychology and has a private practice.
Pargament has published over 200 papers on the subject of religion and spirituality in psychology.
He is world-renowned for his scholarly contributions to the psychology of religion, and for providing clinically relevant scientific analyses of religion's role in mental health.
Pargament has also written two books: The Psychology of Religion and Coping: Theory, Research, Practice (1997; see article), and Spiritually Integrated Psychotherapy: Understanding and Addressing the Sacred (2007).
Both of these seminal works provide a systematic program of empirical research, guided by theory, that is of practical relevance to helping professionals.
One of Pargament's best known areas of research has pertained to Religious Coping, which involves drawing on religious beliefs and practices to understand and deal with life stressors.
Pargament has also helped to design a questionnaire called the "RCOPE" to measure Religious Coping strategies.Kenneth I. Pargament, Harold G. Koenig & Lisa M. Perez (2000).
The many methods of religious coping: Development and initial validation of the RCOPE.
Journal of Clinical Psychology, v56 n4, pp519-543.
</ref> The three methods of coping that are identified by the RCOPE are the deferring style, self-directing style, and collaborative style.
The deferring style involves delegating all problem solving to God; the self-directing style is when the individual chooses to utilizes the power God has given them to solve the problem on their own; and the collaborative style is implemented when the individual treats God as a teammate in the problem solving process.
The collaborative style of religious coping has been found to have the greatest psychological benefits, correlating with increased self-esteem and lower levels of depression.
Thus, Pargament's work has helped set the stage for a large scale program of research on this subject: currently there have been over 250 published studies on religious coping.
Pargament's research also has helped psychologist learn how religious belief influences mental and physical health.
For instance, he found that religious activity increased for Muslim-Americans after 9/11, and that in comparison with those who remained isolated and rejected by their religion, they experienced fewer symptoms of depression  Similarly, he found that negative religious coping among AIDS patients was associated with an increase in HIV-related symptoms Pargament has described four major stances toward religion that have been adopted by psychotherapists in their work with clients.
He called them the religiously rejectionist, exclusivist, constructivist, and pluralist stances.
He claims that the pluralistic approach is the best for clinicians because it recognizes the existence of a Supreme Being but allows for many interpretations of that reality.
Furthermore, Pargament believes that religious discussions should become a greater part of the therapeutic process.
He has advocated for religious guidebooks to be created for psychotherapists and that religious training be mandated.
Pargament has also linked attribution theory to the psychology of religion, doing empirical research distinguishing between different forms of religious attribution.
Engel v. Vitale, 370 U.S. 421 (1962), was a landmark United States Supreme Court case that ruled it is unconstitutional for state officials to compose an official school prayer and encourage its recitation in public schools.
The case was brought by a group of families of public school students in New Hyde Park, New York, who complained that the voluntary prayer written by the state board of regents to "Almighty God" contradicted their religious beliefs.
Led by Stephen Engel, a follower of Judaism, the plaintiffs sought to challenge the constitutionality of the state's prayer in school policy.
They were supported by groups opposed to the school prayer including rabbinical organizations, Ethical Culture, and Judaic organizations.
The acting parties were not members of one particular religion; despite being listed in the court papers as an atheist, plaintiff Lawrence Roth later denied this allegation and described himself as religious but not comfortable with prayer.
The five plaintiffs were made up of 3 Jews and two self-proclaimed "spiritual" people who did not belong to any one organized religion.
The prayer in question was: The plaintiffs argued that opening the school day with such a prayer violates the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution (as applied to the states through the Fourteenth), which says in part, "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion."
The governments of twenty-two states signed on to an amicus curiae brief urging affirmance of the New York Court of Appeals decision that upheld the constitutionality of the prayer.
The American Jewish Committee, the Synagogue Council of America, and the American Ethical Union each submitted briefs urging the Court to instead reverse and rule that the prayer was unconstitutional.
In an opinion delivered by Justice Hugo Black, the Court ruled that government-written prayers were not to be recited in public schools and were a violation of the U.S. Constitution and the Establishment Clause of the first amendment.
This was decided in a vote of 6-1, because before the decision could be announced, Justice Felix Frankfurter suffered a cerebral stroke that forced him to retire, and Justice Byron White took no part in the case.
The Court explained the importance of separation between church and state by giving a lengthy history of the issue, beginning with the 16th century in England.
It then stated that school's prayer is a religious activity by the very nature of it being a prayer, and that prescribing such a religious activity for school children violates the Establishment Clause.
The program, created by government officials to promote a religious belief, was therefore constitutionally impermissible.
The Court rejected the defendant's arguments that people are not asked to respect any specific established religion; and that the prayer is voluntary.
The Court held that the mere promotion of a religion is sufficient to establish a violation, even if that promotion is not coercive.
The Court further held that the fact that the prayer is vaguely worded enough not to promote any particular religion is not a sufficient defense, as it still promotes a family of religions (those that recognize "Almighty God"), which still violates the Establishment Clause.
Engel became the basis for several subsequent decisions limiting government-directed prayer in school.
In Wallace v. Jaffree (1985), the Supreme Court ruled Alabama's law permitting one minute for prayer or meditation was unconstitutional.
In Lee v. Weisman (1992), the court prohibited clergy-led prayer at middle school graduation ceremonies.
Lee v. Weisman, in turn, was a basis for Santa Fe ISD v. Doe (2000), in which the Court extended the ban to school-organized student-led prayer at high school football games.
Davis v. Beason, 133 U.S. 333 (1890), was a United States Supreme Court case affirming, by a 9-0 vote, that federal laws against polygamy did not conflict with the free exercise clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.
Congress had passed the Edmunds Act in 1882, which made polygamy a felony; over 1,300 Mormons were imprisoned.
The Act also required test oaths requiring voters to swear they were not bigamists or polygamists.
A statute of the Idaho Territory required a similar oath, in order to limit or eliminate Mormons' participation in government and their control of local schools.
Mormons initiated a challenge to Idaho's oath test.
Davis, a resident of Idaho, was convicted in the territorial district court of swearing falsely after taking the voter's oath."
"Davis v. Beason 130 U.S. 333 (1890)", Richard E. Morgan, 1986.
</ref> Davis appealed his conviction via a habeas corpus writ, claiming that the Idaho law requiring the oath violated his right to the free exercise of his religion as a member of the LDS Church.
Justice Field, writing for the Court, condemned polygamy, writing that "Few crimes are more pernicious to the best interests of society, and receive more general or more deserved punishment."
He went on to echo Reynolds v. United States (1878): "However free the exercise of religion may be, it must be subordinate to the criminal laws of the country, passed with reference to actions regarded by general consent as properly the subjects of punitive legislation."
He wrote by way of comparison that if a religious sect advocated fornication or human sacrifice, "swift punishment would follow the carrying into effect of its doctrines, and no heed would be given to the pretense that, as religious beliefs, their supporters could be protected in their exercise by the constitution of the United States."
Field listed the limits that federal law placed upon the rights of United States territories to qualify voters, noted Idaho's specific prohibition of polygamists and people encouraging polygamy from the right to vote, and wrote that this was "not open to any constitutional or legal objection," as the Idaho law "simply excludes from the privilege of voting ... those who have been convicted of certain offenses".
Richard Morgan wrote, "The decision became one of the principal underpinnings of what later came to be called the 'secular regulation' approach to the free exercise clause whereby no religious exemptions are required from otherwise valid secular regulations."
106 years later, in Romer v. Evans (1996), the Supreme Court ruled unconstitutional a Colorado constitutional initiative that prevented any jurisdiction from protecting homosexual citizens from discrimination.
In the dissent, Justice Scalia asked how Romer could be reconciled with Davis v. Beason:
In the United Kingdom, a variety of contemporary Pagan movements professing a form of Heathenry exist.
Most Heathens in the UK operate in small groups or family units, often termed kindreds or hearths.
There is a tendency for such groups to develop their own approaches to Heathenry independently, assisted by networking groups and Internet communication.
Thus most kindreds remain unaffiliated with one another while remaining in contact.
The most evident forms of ritual practice among the British Heathen community are blot and sumbel.
The first of these is a rite of offering, while the latter is a rite of toasting.
The latter rite is typically more formal, while blot can be more simple, and performed without words.
In the United Kingdom Census 2001, 300 people registered as Heathen in England and Wales.
However, many Heathens followed the advice of the Pagan Federation (PF) and simply described themselves as "Pagan", while other Heathens did not specify their religious beliefs.
The 2011 census however made it possible to describe oneself as Pagan-Heathen (or any other chosen subgroup).
The figures for England and Wales show 1,958 people self-identifying as Heathen.
A further 251 described themselves as Reconstructionist and may include some people reconstructing Germanic paganism.
The comparable figures for the UK as a whole in 2001 were 278 Heathen and 92 Asatru: Anthropologist Jenny Blain asserted that the largest divide in the British Heathen community was between groups who believe that humans are naturally divided into distinct races and those who see racial distinctions as being cultural.
The Odinic Rite (OR) was founded in 1973 under the influence of Else Christensen's Odinist Study Group.
On 24 February 1988 the Rite became the first polytheistic religious organisation to be granted "Registered Charity" status in the UK.
This led to some controversy that the Rite had presented Odinism as a monotheistic religion in order to gain acceptance by the Charity Commission.
In 1990 a split occurred in the Rite.
Two organisations were formed from the schism, initially each claiming the same name and therefore known by their postal addresses.
"BCM Runic" is now known as the Odinic Rite with the motto "Faith, Folk and Family".
"BM Edda", now known as the Odinist Fellowship, is the part of the organisation which retains charitable status.
An annual gathering of Heathens in the UK called Heathenfest has been held at Peterborough since 2005, it is organised by Woden's Hearth.
Past speakers have included Pete Jennings, Jenny Blain, Thorskegga Thorn and Stephen Pollington.
2013 saw the founding of an online social media group called Asatru UK, which decided to branch out into real-world events.
The group's inclusive, family-friendly and individualistic approach proved highly popular.
Now running successfully for a couple of years, membership of this group has exploded, becoming one of the largest heathen organisations in the country.
Moots and other events have been held across the U.K. and plans for a large-scale heathen festival in 2016 are well underway.
Anthropologist Jenny Blain noted that by 2005, it was common for Pagan moots (regular social gatherings) to contain a small number of Heathens.
However, many Heathens distance themselves from the wider Pagan movement, which they deem to have been too heavily dominated by practitioners of Wicca.
Thus, there are few Heathen members of the Pagan Federation, although increasingly mutual links between Heathens and the Pagan Federaton are being established.
The internet also provided a factor in unifying the British Heathen movement, as websites such as UKHeathenry and Midgard's Web became increasingly popular in th early 21st century.
Heathens were also involved in the creation of the Association of Polytheist Traditions.
The Constitution of Albania provides for freedom of religion, and the Government has generally respected this right in practice.
There have been no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious beliefs or practice.
In data collected by sociologists Brian Grim and Roger Finke Albania scored low on Government Regulation of Religion, Social Regulation of Religion, Government Favoritism of Religion and Religious Persecution.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government declares that it generally respect this right.
The Government declares its secularism.
There is no official religion and all religions are equal; however, the predominant religious communities (Sunni Muslim, Bektashi, Orthodox, and Catholic) enjoy a greater degree of official recognition (e.g., national holidays) and social status based on their historical presence in the country.
Official holidays include holy days from all four predominant faiths.
All registered religious groups have the right to hold bank accounts and to own property and buildings.
No restriction is imposed on families regarding the way they raise their children with respect to religious practices.
The generally amicable relationship among religions in society contributed to religious freedom.
The Government doesn't require registration or licensing of religious groups; however, the State Committee on Cults maintains records and statistics on foreign religious organizations that contact it for assistance.
No groups reported difficulties registering during the period covered by this report.
All registered religious groups have the right to hold bank accounts and own property.
Religious movements may acquire the official status of a juridical person by registering with the Tirana District Court under the Law on Nonprofit Organizations, which recognizes the status of a nonprofit association regardless of whether the organization has a cultural, recreational, religious, or humanitarian character.
All religious communities have criticized the Government for its unwillingness to grant them tax-exempt status.
Since 2003 foreign religious missionaries have been exempt from the residence permit tax.
The State Committee on Cults, under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Tourism, Culture, Youth, and Sports, is charged with regulating relations between the Government and all religious communities as well as protecting freedom of religion and promoting interreligious cooperation and understanding.
The committee claims that its records on religious organizations facilitate the granting of residence permits by police to foreign employees of various religious organizations.
No organization claimed any difficulty in obtaining residency permits during the period covered by this report.
However, as a general rule, foreign religious missionaries were issued only 1-year residency permits instead of the 5-year permits allowed by law for residents in the country more than 2 years.
During the period covered by this report, the Committee began working with the Government on criteria that would allow longer-term residency permits of up to 5 years for well-established religious organizations with long-term ties to the country.
There is no law or regulation forcing religious organizations to notify the Committee of their activities; however, article 10 of the Constitution calls for separate bilateral agreements to regulate relations between the Government and religious communities.
The Catholic Church continued to be the only religious community that had finalized such an agreement with the Government.
The Committee had a mandate to negotiate agreements with the three remaining groups and created a working group in May 2006 for this purpose.
The Committee reportedly reached an agreement with three groups—the Muslim, Orthodox, and Muslim Bektashi communities.
VUSH, a Protestant umbrella organization, approached the Committee to negotiate a bilateral agreement but had not received a response by the end of the reporting period.
The Ministry of Education states that public schools in the country are secular and that the law prohibits ideological and religious indoctrination.
According to official figures, religious communities, organizations, and foundations managed 101 educational institutions, of which 15 were officially religious-affiliated schools, with more than 2,600 students.
By law the Ministry of Education must license such schools, and curricula must comply with national education standards.
The Catholic and Muslim groups operated numerous state-licensed schools and reported no problems in obtaining new licenses for new schools.
The Orthodox Church and the Bektashis operated strictly religious educational centers for the training of clerics.
Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion; however, restitution of property expropriated by the former communist government continued to be a problem.
According to the law on the restitution of and compensation for such properties, religious communities have the same rights as private individuals in matters of property restitution or compensation, but the religious communities questioned the law's limitation on property restitution to .
During the reporting period, the Government had not established a special fund for monetary compensation, but the Prime Minister's Office consistently attempted to resolve religious property issues.
The Government also announced plans to remove bureaucratic and legalistic hurdles that hindered the return of confiscated properties by eliminating the requirement that religious organizations produce titles and deeds to prove original ownership.
During the communist era, properties confiscated by the regime generally were recorded, and the Government was working to recognize these archival documents as equivalent to property titles, thus clarifying land ownership in some cases.
All four major traditional communities had substantial property claims that remained unresolved.
In cases involving the return of religious buildings, the Government often failed to return the land surrounding the buildings, sometimes because of redevelopment claims by private individuals who began farming it or using it for other purposes.
The Orthodox Church continued construction of a new cathedral in Tirana on a parcel of land that it received as compensation for other land seized by the communist government, but it claimed a lack of action on other property claims throughout the country, as well as difficulty in recovering religious icons and precious manuscripts.
Both the Orthodox Church and the Catholic Church were trying to regain possession of archives seized by the communist government and held in the national archives.
Although the Catholic Church had substantial outstanding property claims, it indicated that it was not actively pursuing these and had decided to focus its efforts in other areas.
Nevertheless, if compensation were eventually to be paid out to other religious groups, it would expect to receive compensation as well.
The Albanian Islamic Community and the Muslim Bektashis also requested that the Government return a number of properties.
The Islamic Community succeeded in obtaining the title to a large parcel of land in Tirana where a mosque once stood.
However, it did not receive a building permit for construction of a new mosque.
Under the new Urban Regulatory Plan for Tirana, another parcel of land in Tirana, also owned by the Islamic Community, had been set aside for this purpose.
The Islamic Community rejected this location as too small and continued to favor the original site.
The problem remained unresolved at the end of the period covered by this report.
The Bektashi community was also seeking compensation from the Government for victims of religious maltreatment during the communist regime.
The Orthodox Church's 1954 statute states that its archbishop must have Albanian citizenship; however, the archbishop was a Greek citizen who was seeking Albanian citizenship.
During the period covered by this report, the Government did not take action on his citizenship application, submitted in 2003.
Generally, Albania has very little religious strife.
However, there have been some incidents of mistreatment as a result of religious beliefs.
Since 2001 a number of Albanian Muslims have been harassed, discriminated and persecuted because of their religious beliefs.
The Security Services of Albania have detained an Albanian imam, Artan Kristo, without any proven conviction.
According to Artan Kristo's statements and the statements of a number of Albanian imams and the Muslim Forum of Albania, Kristo is illegally detained, since he did not agree to become a spy for the Albanian Security Services.
While there is no law restricting the demonstration of religious affiliation in public schools, there have been instances when students were not allowed to do so in practice.
In December 2003, a male Muslim student was prohibited from having his diploma photograph taken because he had a beard.
The student was eventually permitted to graduate through the intervention of the Office of the Ombudsman (a government institution tasked with investigating citizens' charges of human rights violations and protecting their fundamental freedoms).
In 2002, some Bektashi communities outside of Tirana experienced intimidation, vandalism, and threats of violence.
Subsequently, the Albanian authorities identified those responsible (non-Albanian citizens) and expelled them for immigration laws violations.
There were no new reports of vandalism during the period covered by this report.
Bektashi leaders believe that foreign religious influences seeking to undermine the country's efforts to maintain religious tolerance and freedom were at the root of these incidents.
Other religious leaders have expressed similar concerns about the potentially divisive role played by foreign religious extremists.
The General Secretary of the Islamic Community of Albania, Sali Tivari, was shot and killed at the Community's headquarters in January 2003.
The General Prosecutor's Office returned the case to the authorities for further investigation and it has remained unsolved by the end of the period covered by this report.
In October 2003, police arrested Kastriot Myftari, author of the book "Albanian National Islamism" on charges of inciting religious hatred against Islam.
The book contained the author's opinions on Islam and how the religion has impacted upon Albanian life.
According to the prosecutor's office, several statements in the book demeaned Islam.
The prosecutor had asked the court for 6 months imprisonment for the author.
In June, the court acquitted Myftari of all charges.
During year 2004, representatives of the Orthodox Church expressed concerns that churches, crosses, and other buildings were targets of vandalism.
In November 2005 a speech from Albania's president in London, aroused public protests from The Muslim Forum of Albania that accused the president of insulting Islam.
In April 2008, a novel from the Socialist MP, Ben Blushi was condemned by a number of Muslim NGO's as racist and Islamophobic.
According to the NGO's the author shows signs of racism against the Turks, Romani people and Albanian Muslims in the novel, and portrays the prophet Muhammed in a very disrespectful way.
There were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country.
There were no reports of forced religious conversion.
The archaeology of religion and ritual is a growing field of study within archaeology that applies ideas from religious studies, theory and methods, anthropological theory, and archaeological and historical methods and theories to the study of religion and ritual in past human societies from a material perspective.
Religion may be defined as “a set of beliefs concerning the cause, nature, and purpose of the universe, especially when considered as the creation of a superhuman agency or agencies, usually involving devotional and ritual observances, and often containing a moral code governing the conduct of human affairs,”  whereas ritual is “an established or prescribed procedure for a religious or other rite.” Archaeologists may study the material traces of religious ritual (for example, the ritual destruction of ceramic vessels during the Aztec New Fire ceremony ) or the material correlates of religion as a totalized worldview (for example, Elizabeth Kyder-Reid’s study of the Southern Redemptorists’ reconfiguration of landscape and artifacts to reflect their ideals of community and poverty in material form ).
As in religious studies and the Anthropology of religion, many archaeologists differentiate between “world religions,” and “traditional” or “indigenous religions.” “World religions” are defined by Bowie (2000: 26)  as: while indigenous religions are defined as: However, Timothy Insoll (2004: 9)  has argued that these categorizations arise from a much-critiqued neo-evolutionary perspective.
Strict dichotomies of religious forms may also contribute to skewing research toward state religions, leaving household religious practice, and the relationships between these, under-investigated (a trend noted by Elson and Smith, 2001 ).
Insoll (2004:9) argues that archaeologists may contribute to blurring the boundaries of world and indigenous religions.
The archaeology of religion also incorporates related anthropological or religious concepts and terms such as magic, tradition, symbolism, and the sacred.
Theory within the archaeology of religion borrows heavily from the Anthropology of religion, which encompasses a broad range of perspectives.
These include: Émile Durkheim’s functionalist understanding of religion as serving to separate the sacred and the profane; Karl Marx’s idea of religion as “the opium of the masses” or a false consciousness, Clifford Geertz’s loose definition of religion as a “system of symbols” that orders the world, Victor Turner’s work on ritual, including rites of passage and liminality, Max Weber’s religious types  and thoughts on the relationship between economics and religion; Claude Lévi-Strauss’ structuralist understandings of totemism and myth; and Mary Douglas’ idea of the division of “purity and danger”.
Archaeological studies of religion increasingly recognize religion as an organizing principle in social life, rather than as a separate sphere of activity.
They include religion as an axis of identity that structures social life and personal experience.
Therefore, entire artifact assemblages (rather than specifically “religious” artifacts, such as rosary beads) can be interpreted according to the ways that they simultaneously create, display, and constrain notions of self according to religious ideas.
For example, John Chenoweth (2009)  interpreted ceramic assemblages and burials according to Quaker ideals of plainness and modesty.
Because social identity is both imposed and negotiated through social practice, including material practice, archaeologies of religion increasingly incorporate practice-based theory.
Building upon Anthony Giddens’ idea of structuration  and Pierre Bourdieu’s ideas of both practice  and cultural capital, theories of material practice posit that people use material goods to negotiate their places within social structures.
Examples of the archaeological interpretation of religion and ritual as part of social negotiation, transformation or reinforcement include Chenoweth’s work on Quaker religious practice, Kyder-Reid’s work on the Southern Redemptorists, and Timothy Pauketat’s work on feasting in Cahokia (Pauketat et al., 2002 ).
Because religion and political power are often intertwined particularly in early states, the archaeology of religion may also engage theories of power and inequality.
John Janusek’s study of Tiwanaku religion, for example, explored the ways that religion served to integrate societies within the Andean state.
Colonial regimes frequently justified expansion through a commitment to religious conversion; archaeologies of coloniality may therefore intersect with the archaeology of religion.
James Delle’s 2001 article on missions and landscape in Jamaica  and Barbara Voss’ work on missions, sexuality and empire  demonstrate how religion has intersected with colonial regimes.
Historical archaeologists have made major contributions to the understanding of the religion and ritual of peoples who have remained underrepresented (or misrepresented) in the historical record, such as colonized peoples, indigenous peoples, and enslaved peoples.
Mandatory religious conversion was common in many colonial situations (e.g.
the Spanish colonization of the Americas), which led to syncretic religious practice, rejection or resistance to new religions, covert practice of indigenous religions, and/or misunderstandings and misinterpretations of both indigenous and colonizer religions (Hanks 2010  Klor de Alva 1982, Wernke 2007).
This research combines archaeological and anthropological method and theory with historical method and theory.
In addition to recovering, recording, and analyzing material culture, historical archaeologists use archives, oral histories, ethnohistorical accounts.
Researchers read texts critically, emphasizing the historical context of the documents (especially regarding underrepresented peoples whose voices may be distorted or missing) in order to better understand religious practices that may have been discouraged or even severely punished.
Combined archaeological, historical, and anthropological data sets may contradict each other, or the material record may illuminate the details of covert or syncretic religious practice, as well as resistance to dominant religious forms.
For example, our understanding of the religious practice of enslaved peoples in the United States (e.g.
Leone and Frye 2001, Fennell 2007 ) has increased dramatically thanks to research in historical archaeology.
Because archaeology studies human history through objects, buildings, bodies, and spaces, archaeologists must engage theories that connect anthropological and sociological theories of religion to material culture and landscapes.
Theories of materiality  and landscape  serve to connect human activities, experiences, and behaviors to social practices, including religion.
Theories of embodiment  also serve to interpret human remains as they relate to religion and ritual.
The archaeology of religion makes use of the same material evidence as other branches of archaeology, but certain artifact classes are particularly emphasized in studying religion and ritual in the past: Landscapes are imbued with sacred meaning throughout the world; aboriginal Australian songlines, and the related belief that mythical events are marked on the landscape, are one example.
Human modifications to landscapes, such as Kyder-Reid’s study of the Redemtorists’ modifications of their estate to emphasize communality, may point to the enactment of religious views.
Contemporary religious groups often claim archaeological sites as part of their heritage, and make use of archaeological sites and artifacts in their religious practice (e.g.
Wallis 2003 ).
These practices and religious interpretations of sites may clash with archaeological interpretations, leading to disputes about heritage, preservation, use of sites, and the “ownership” of history (Bender 1999 ).
Biblical archaeology is a field of archaeology that seeks to correlate events in the Bible with concrete archaeological sites and artifacts (Meyers 1984, Richardson 1916).
Religious discrimination is valuing or treating a person or group differently because of what they do or do not believe.
Specifically, it is when adherents of different religions (or denominations) are treated unequally, either before the law or in institutional settings such as employment or housing.
In the United States the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment states that "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof".
In a 1979 consultation on the issue, the United States Commission on Civil Rights defined religious discrimination in relation to the civil rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.
Whereas religious civil liberties, such as the right to hold or not to hold a religious belief, are essential for Freedom of Religion (in the United States secured by the First Amendment), religious discrimination occurs when someone is denied "the equal protection of the laws, equality of status under the law, equal treatment in the administration of justice, and equality of opportunity and access to employment, education, housing, public services and facilities, and public accommodation because of their exercise of their right to religious freedom."
However, in 1878 the U.S. supreme court has ruled that religious duty is not a suitable defense to a criminal indictment, and that religious activates could be regulated by law.
In 1878 the U.S. supreme court, in Reynolds v. United States, ruled that a law against bigamy was not considered to be religiously discriminatory against members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), who were practiced Polygamy up until 1890.
George Reynolds was a member of the LDS Church, and was convicted of bigamy under the Morrill Anti-Bigamy Act.
He was secretary to Brigham Young and presented himself as a test of the federal government's attempt to outlaw polygamy.
The Court investigated the history of religious freedom in the United States and quoted a letter from Thomas Jefferson in which he wrote that there was a distinction between religious belief and action that flowed from religious belief.
The former "lies solely between man and his God," therefore "the legislative powers of the government reach actions only, and not opinions."
The court considered that if polygamy was allowed, someone might eventually argue that human sacrifice was a necessary part of their religion, and "to permit this would be to make the professed doctrines of religious belief superior to the law of the land, and in effect to permit every citizen to become a law unto himself."
The Court believed the First Amendment forbade Congress from legislating against opinion, but allowed it to legislate against action.
Therefore religious duty was not a suitable defense to a criminal indictment, religious activates could be regulated by law.
The No Religious Test Clause of the United States Constitution is found in Article VI, paragraph 3.
This has been interpreted to mean that no federal employee, whether elected or appointed, career or political, can be required to adhere to or accept any religion or belief.
However, some state and local jurisdictions have enacted legal restrictions that require a religious test as a qualification for holding public office.
For instance in Texas an official may be "excluded from holding office" if he or she does not "acknowledge the existence of a Supreme Being."
(i.e.
God), thus atheists, agnostics, most Satanists, some Unitarian Universalists and New Age followers, who do not believe in a supreme being would be excluded from public office.
Peyote is listed by the United States DEA as a Schedule I controlled substance.
However, practitioners of the Peyote Way Church of God, a Native American religion, perceive the regulations regarding the use of Peyote as discriminating, leading to religious discrimination issues regarding about the U.S. policy towards drugs.
As the result of Peyote Way Church of God v. Thornburgh the American Indian Religious Freedom Act of 1978 was passed.
This federal statute allow the "Traditional Indian religious use of the peyote sacrament," exempting only use by Native American persons.
Other jurisdictions have similar statutory exemptions in reaction to the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in Employment Division v. Smith, , which held that laws prohibiting the use of peyote that do not specifically exempt religious use nevertheless do not violate the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment.
The Eagle Feather Law, which governs the possession and religious use of eagle feathers, was officially written to protect then dwindling eagle populations while still protecting traditional Native American spiritual and religious customs, of which the use of eagles are central.
The Eagle Feather Law later met charges of promoting racial and religious discrimination due to the law’s provision authorizing the possession of eagle feathers to members of only one ethnic group, Native Americans, and forbidding Native Americans from including non-Native Americans in indigenous customs involving eagle feathers—a common modern practice dating back to the early 16th century.
Charges of religious and racial discrimination have also been found in the education system.
In a recent example, the dormitory policies at Boston University and The University of South Dakota were charged with racial and religious discrimination when they forbade a university dormitory resident from smudging while praying.
The policy at The University of South Dakota was later changed to permit students to pray while living in the university dorms.
Another example concerns the Peralta Community College District which threatened to discipline two students when they prayed for a sick professor.
The college later rescinded the warnings when threaten with a lawsuit.
In 2004, a case involving five Ohio prison inmates (two followers of Asatru, a minister of the Church of Jesus Christ Christian, a Wiccan witch and a Satanist) protesting denial of access to ceremonial items and opportunities for group worship was brought before the Supreme Court.
The Boston Globe reports on the 2005 decision of Cutter v. Wilkinson in favour of the claimants as a notable case.
Among the denied objects was instructions for runic writing requested by an Asatruer.
Inmates of the "Intensive Management Unit" at Washington State Penitentiary who are adherents of Asatru in 2001 were deprived of their Thor's Hammer medallions.
In 2007, a federal judge confirmed that Asatru adherents in US prisons have the right to possess a Thor’s Hammer pendant.
An inmate sued the Virginia Department of Corrections after he was denied it while members of other religions were allowed their medallions.
Religious discrimination has also been documented in employment in the United States, such as an Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) lawsuit alleging discrimination against an Iranian-Muslim employee by the Merrill Lynch company in the United States.
On March 20, 2014, a jury hearing the case of Cooke et al v. Colorado City, Town of et al ruled that the twin towns of Colorado City and Hildale had discriminated against Ronald and Jinjer Cooke because they were not members of the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (FLDS church).
The Cooke’s were awarded $5.2 million for "religious discrimination".
The Cooke family moved to the Short Creek Community in 2008 but were refused access to utilities by the town governments.
As a result of the ruling, Arizona's Attorney General Tom Horne issued a press release stating that he "wants to eradicate discrimination in two polygamous towns" and believes that the court ruling will give him the tools to do it.
In Thailand, the freedom of religion is protected through statutory means.
The law provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally has respected this right in practice; however, it does not register new religious groups that have not been accepted into one of the existing religious governing bodies on doctrinal or other grounds.
In practice, unregistered religious organizations have operated freely, and the government's practice of not recognizing any new religious groups has not restricted the activities of unregistered religious groups.
The government officially limits the number of foreign missionaries that may work in the country, although unregistered missionaries have been present in large numbers and have been allowed to live and work freely.
There have been no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice; however, in the far southern border provinces, continued separatist violence has resulted in increasingly tense relations between the Buddhist and Muslim communities.
The country has an area of and population of 64 million.
According to the government's National Statistics Office, approximately 94.8 percent of the population is Buddhist and 4.5 percent is Muslim; however, non-governmental organizations, academics, and religious groups estimated that approximately 85 to 90 percent of the population is Theravada Buddhist and up to 10 percent of the population is Muslim .
Christians, mainly Catholics, represent 0.7% of the population.
There are small animist, Confucian, Hindu, Jewish, Sikh, and Taoist populations.
According to the Ministry of Culture's Religious Affairs Department (RAD), the numbers of atheists or persons who do not profess a religious faith make up less than one percent of the population.
The dominant religion is Theravada Buddhism.
The Buddhist clergy, or Sangha, consists of two main schools, which are governed by the same ecclesiastical hierarchy.
Monks belonging to the older Mahanikaya school far outnumber those of the Dhammayuttika school, an order that grew out of a 19th-century reform movement led by King Mongkut (Rama IV).
Islam is the dominant religion in four of the five southernmost provinces, which border Malaysia.
The majority of Muslims are ethnic Malay, but the Muslim population encompass groups of diverse ethnic and national origin, including descendants of immigrants from South Asia, China, Cambodia, and Indonesia.
The RAD reported that there are 3,567 registered mosques in 64 provinces, of which 2,289 are located in the 5 southernmost provinces.
According to the RAD, 99 percent of these mosques are associated with the Sunni branch of Islam.
Shi'a mosques make up the remaining 1 percent.
According to RAD statistics, there are an estimated 351,987 Christians in the country , constituting 0.5 percent of the population.
There are several Protestant denominations, and most belong to one of four umbrella organizations.
The oldest of these groupings, the Church of Christ in Thailand, was formed in the mid-1930s.
The largest is the Evangelical Fellowship of Thailand.
Baptists and Seventh-day Adventists are recognized by authorities as separate Protestant denominations and are organized under similar umbrella groups.
According to the most recent government survey in 2002, there are 9 recognized tribal groups (chao khao), comprising approximately 920,000 persons .
Syncretistic practices drawn from Buddhism, Christianity, Taoism, and spirit worship are common among the tribal groups.
The Sikh Council of Thailand estimates the Sikh community to have a population of approximately 70,000 persons, most of whom reside in Bangkok, Chiang Mai, Nakhon Ratchasima, Pattaya, Samui Island, and Phuket.
There are 18 Sikh temples in the country.
According to RAD statistics and local Hindu organizations, there are an estimated 95,000 Hindus in the country.
The ethnic Chinese minority (Sino-Thai) has retained some popular religious traditions from China, including adherence to popular Taoist beliefs.
Members of the Mien hill tribe follow a form of Taoism.
Mahayana Buddhism is practiced primarily by small groups of Chinese and Vietnamese immigrants.
There are more than 675 Chinese and Vietnamese Mahayana Buddhist shrines and temples throughout the country.
Monks working as Buddhist missionaries (Dhammaduta) have been active since the end of World War II, particularly in border areas among the country's tribal populations.
According to the National Buddhism Bureau, as of December 2006 there are 6,458 Dhammaduta working in the country.
In addition, the government sponsored the international travel of another 1,414 Buddhist monks sent by their temples to disseminate religious information.
Muslim organizations reported having small numbers of citizens working as missionaries in the country and abroad.
Christian organizations reported much larger numbers of missionaries, both foreign and Thai, operating in the country.
The law provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respected this right in practice; however, it restricted the activities of some groups.
On September 19, 2006, in a bloodless coup d'état, the military overthrew the government and repealed the constitution.
On October 1, 2006, the military coup leaders promulgated an interim constitution, established an interim government, and convened a Constitutional Drafting Assembly to draft a new constitution.
Legal experts maintained that the interim constitution incorporates by reference many of the civil rights and protections contained in the 1997 constitution.
The repealed 1997 constitution required that the monarch be a Buddhist.
This provision was retained in the April 2007 first draft of the country's next constitution.
The state religion in effect is Theravada Buddhism; however, it is not officially designated as such.
During the reporting period, some Buddhist organizations called for the designation of Buddhism as the state religion in the new draft constitution, but as of June 2007 such a provision had not been included.
The repealed 1997 constitution stated that discrimination against a person on the grounds of "a difference in religious belief" shall not be permitted.
The September 2006 interim constitution appears to retain by reference this prohibition against discrimination, and it has been included explicitly in the April 2007 draft constitution.
There was no significant pattern of religious discrimination during the period covered by this report.
The repealed 1997 constitution and the interim constitution by reference provided for a large measure of freedom of speech; however, laws prohibiting speech likely to insult Buddhism remain in place.
The 1962 Sangha Act specifically prohibits the defamation or insult of Buddhism and the Buddhist clergy.
Violators of the law could face up to 1 year imprisonment or fines of up to $5,800 (188,000 baht).
The Penal Code prohibits the insult or disturbance of religious places or services of all officially recognized religions.
The government plays an active role in religious affairs.
The RAD, which is subordinate to the Ministry of Culture, registers religious organizations.
Under the provisions of the Religious Organizations Act, the RAD recognizes a new religion if a national census shows that it has at least 5,000 adherents, has a uniquely recognizable theology, and is not politically active.
A religious organization must be accepted into an officially recognized ecclesiastical group before the RAD will grant registration.
During the reporting period, there were five recognized religious groups: Buddhists, Muslims, Brahmin-Hindus, Sikhs, and Catholics.
Four Protestant groups are recognized as subgroups of the Catholics.
Government registration confers some benefits, including access to state subsidies, tax-exempt status, and preferential allocation of resident visas for organization officials.
However, since 1984 the government has not recognized any new religious groups.
In practice, unregistered religious organizations operated freely, and the government's practice of not recognizing any new religious groups did not restrict the activities of unregistered religious groups.
The repealed 1997 constitution required the government "to patronize and protect Buddhism and other religions."
The September 2006 interim constitution appears to retain by reference this protection for religion, and it has been included explicitly in the April 2007 draft constitution.
The state subsidizes activities of the three largest religious communities (Buddhist, Islamic, and Christian).
The government allocated approximately $92.6 million (3 billion baht) during fiscal year 2007 to support the National Buddhism Bureau, which was established in 2002 as an independent state agency.
The office oversees the Buddhist clergy and approved the curricula of Buddhist teachings for all Buddhist temples of educational institutions.
In addition, the bureau promotes the Buddhist faith by sponsoring educational and public relations materials on the faith and practice in daily life.
For fiscal year 2006 the government, through the RAD, budgeted $950,000 (30.8 million baht) for Islamic organizations and $88,000 (2.85 million baht) for Christian, Brahman-Hindu, and Sikh organizations.
The budgets for Buddhist and Muslim organizations included funds to support Buddhist and Muslim institutes of higher education, fund religious education programs in public and private schools, provide daily allowances for monks and Muslim clerics who hold administrative and senior ecclesiastical posts, and subsidize travel and health care for monks and Muslim clerics.
Also included is an annual budget for the renovation and repair of Buddhist temples and Muslim mosques, the maintenance of historic Buddhist sites, and the daily upkeep of the central mosque in Pattani, Thailand.
Other registered religious groups can request government support for renovation and repair work but do not receive a regular budget to maintain religious buildings, nor do they receive government assistance to support their clergy.
In 2007 the government budgeted approximately $580,000 (18.8 million baht) for the restoration of religious buildings of religious groups, of which $362,000 (11.7 million baht) was allotted for the Muslim community, $145,000 (4.7 million baht) for the Christian, Brahmin-Hindu, and Sikh communities, and $73,000 (2.4 million baht) for special projects of all communities.
Private donations to registered religious organizations are tax deductible.
Religious instruction is required in public schools at both the primary and secondary education levels.
The Ministry of Education has formulated a course called "Social, Religion, and Culture Studies," which students in each grade study for one to two hours each week.
The course contains information about all of the recognized religions in the country.
Students who wish to pursue in-depth studies of other religions or of their belief may study at the religious schools and can transfer credits to the public school.
Schools, working in conjunction with their local school administrative board, are authorized to arrange additional religious studies courses.
The Supreme Sangha Council and the Central Islamic Committee of Thailand have created special curricula for Buddhist and Islamic studies.
There are a variety of Islamic education opportunities for children.
Tadika is an after-school religious course for children in grades one through six, which is under the supervision of the RAD, except for the three southern provinces of Narathiwat, Yala, and Pattani, where the courses were supervised by the Ministry of Education.
The education generally takes place in a mosque.
According to government statistics, as of April 2007 there were 1,618 registered Islamic Religious and Moral Education centers teaching Tadika in the 3 southern provinces, with 170,989 students and 5,749 teachers.
In the remainder of the country, the RAD registered 994 centers, with 110,783 students and 2,693 teachers.
For secondary school children, the Ministry of Education allows two separate curricula for private Islamic studies schools.
The first type teaches only Islamic religious courses.
As of April 2007 there were 107 schools with 2,044 students and 277 teachers using this curriculum in the 3 southern provinces.
The Government registers but does not certify these schools, and students from these schools cannot continue to any higher education within the country.
The number of this type of school declined because students opted to attend schools that afford alternatives for higher education.
The second curriculum teaches both Islamic religious courses and traditional state education coursework.
As of April 2007, 144 schools with 72,618 students used this curriculum in the 3 southern provinces.
The government recognizes these private schools, and graduating students can continue to higher education within the country.
A third type of Islamic education available, mostly in the southern part of the country, is that provided by traditional, privately operated religious day schools, known as pondok schools.
As of April 2007, there were 328 registered pondok schools primarily in Pattani, Yala, and Narathiwat Provinces.
Previously, these religious schools were not required to register with the Government and received no government oversight or funding.
The registration effort began in April 2004 following an attack on a military post and arms depot in Narathiwat in January 2004.
Government investigations into that incident led the authorities to pursue suspects associated with pondok schools.
The total number of pondoks is still unknown.
Sources believed that there could be as many as 1,000.
The government actively sponsors interfaith dialogue.
The abrogated 1997 constitution required the state to "promote good understanding and harmony among followers of all religions."
This language was included in the April 2007 draft constitution.
The government funds regular meetings and public education programs.
These programs included the RAD annual interfaith meeting for representatives and members of all religious groups certified by RAD.
The programs also included monthly meetings of the 17 member Subcommittee on Religious Relations, located within the Prime Minister's National Identity Promotion Office (the subcommittee is composed of one representative from the Buddhist, Muslim, Roman Catholic, Hindu, and Sikh communities in addition to civil servants from several government agencies).
The RAD held an interfaith event focusing on religious youth from June 26–28 in Chonburi Province, just outside Bangkok.
Approximately 250 youth from across the country attended.
In July 2006 the RAD organized another interfaith convention in Surat Thani, which had approximately 1,000 participants.
The RAD sponsored a public relations campaign promoting interreligious understanding and harmony, including prime-time television announcements.
However, a continuing separatist insurgency by militant ethnic Malay Muslims in the southernmost provinces led to concerns that the violence may be contributing to increased tensions between the local Buddhist and Muslim communities.
During the reporting period, the Falun Gong abandoned a petition challenging the government's September 2005 denial of their application to register as an association with the Office of the National Cultural Commission.
The petition was abandoned after no action had been announced on a second petition submitted to the police department to print and distribute a weekly Falun Gong magazine.
The group was able to print and distribute religious materials both in Thai and Chinese on a small, informal basis for free distribution.
Falun Gong maintained a website that advertises daily gatherings in Bangkok.
The government does not recognize religious groups other than the five existing groupings; however, unregistered religious organizations operated freely.
Although unregistered missionaries were present in large numbers, the number of foreign missionaries registered with the government is limited to a quota that originally was established by the RAD in 1982.
The quota is divided along both religious and denominational lines.
There were close to 1,500 registered foreign missionaries in the country, most of them Christian.
During the period covered by this report, the government increased by 10 slots its quota for Christian missionaries.
In addition to these formal quotas, far more missionaries, while not registered, were able to live and work in the country without government interference.
While registration conferred some benefits, such as longer terms for visa stays, being unregistered was not a significant barrier to foreign missionary activity.
Many foreign missionaries entered the country using tourist visas and proselytized or disseminated religious literature without the acknowledgment of the RAD.
There were no reports that foreign missionaries were deported or harassed for working without registration.
Muslim professors and clerics, particularly in the far south, continue to face additional scrutiny because of continued government concern about the resurgence of Muslim separatist activities; however, this did not appear to interfere with their activities or their ability to practice their faith.
Muslim female civil servants were not permitted to wear headscarves when dressed in civil servant uniforms; however, in practice most female civil servants were permitted by their superiors to wear headscarves if they wished, particularly in the country's southernmost provinces.
Muslim female civil servants not required to wear uniforms were allowed to wear headscarves.
There were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country.
However, in many Thai schools Buddhism praying is a compulsory activity along with paying respect to Thai Flag, but the student of other religions can freely choose not to perform Buddhism praying (for example, Muslim student do not forced to pray the Buddhism ritual) .
There were no reports of forced religious conversions, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice; however, religious groups closely associated with ethnic minorities, such as Muslims, experienced some societal economic discrimination.
Such discrimination appeared to be linked more to ethnicity than to religion.
Continued violence in the far southern regions of the country contributed to negative stereotypes of Muslims held by persons from other geographic areas of the country.
Killings clearly targeted at Buddhists increased ethnic tensions between Muslim and Buddhist communities in the far south.
Violent acts committed by suspected separatist militants in the Muslim-majority provinces of Narathiwat, Pattani, Songkhla, and Yala affected the ability of some Buddhists in this predominantly Muslim region to undertake the full range of their traditional religious practices.
During the reporting period, 13 suspects were arrested and were in the process of being tried for the deaths of a Buddhist monk and two novices in an October 2005 attack on a Buddhist temple in Pattani Province.
There were almost daily attacks by suspected separatist militants in the country's southernmost provinces on both government officials and Buddhists and Muslim civilians.
On March 14, 2007, assailants ambushed a van in Yala Province killing eight Buddhist passengers including two teenage girls.
That evening, 2 bombs exploded outside a nearby mosque and teashop, killing 3 Muslims and injuring 20.
On March 19, 2007, gunmen killed three Muslim students and injured seven others at an Islamic boarding school in Songkhla Province.
The violence contributed to an atmosphere of fear and suspicion in the southern provinces.
As a result of a series of increasingly provocative attacks, the level of tension between the local Muslim and Buddhist communities continued to grow.
Government officials and observers expressed concern that the violence could result in open communal conflict.
On October 11, 2006, a monk was injured by a bomb in Narathiwat Province.
Three others were injured in a separate incident on October 23.
The monks were performing the morning ritual of receiving donations of food and were guarded by three armed soldiers, one of whom subsequently died from the explosion.
At the end of the reporting period, no one had been arrested for the 2004 killing of three Buddhist monks and the beheading of one civilian Buddhist rubber tapper, or for the 2004 attacks on Buddhist temples and one Chinese shrine in the southern provinces of the country.
The Government continued to investigate these incidents in the context of security operations involving the ongoing separatist violence in the South.
Buddhist monks continued to report that they were fearful and thus no longer able to travel freely through southern communities to receive alms.
They also claimed that laypersons sometimes declined to assist them in their daily activities out of fear of being targeted by militants.
In response to the killings, the Government stationed troops to protect the religious practitioners and structures of all faiths in communities where the potential for violence existed and provided armed escort for Buddhist monks, where necessary, for their daily rounds to receive alms.
The founder and primary theorist of Marxism, the nineteenth-century German thinker Karl Marx, had an ambivalent and complex attitude to religion, viewing it primarily as "the soul of soulless conditions", the "opium of the people" that had been useful to the ruling classes since it gave the working classes false hope for millennia.
At the same time Marx saw religion as a form of protest by the working classes against their poor economic conditions and their alienation.
In the Marxist–Leninist interpretation of Marxist theory, developed primarily by Russian revolutionary Vladimir Lenin, religion is seen as retarding human development.
Due to this, a number of Marxist–Leninist governments in the twentieth century, such as the Soviet Union after Lenin and the People's Republic of China, implemented rules introducing state atheism.
Karl Marx's religious views have been the subject of much interpretation.
He famously stated in Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right According to Howard Zinn, "He [Marx] saw religion, not just negatively as 'the opium of the people,' but positively as the 'sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world, the soul of soulless conditions.'
This helps us understand the mass appeal of the religious charlatans of the television screen, as well as the work of Liberation Theology in joining the soulfulness of religion to the energy of revolutionary movements in miserably poor countries.".
Some recent scholarship has suggested that 'opium of the people' is itself a dialectical metaphor, a 'protest' and an 'expression' of suffering Vladimir Lenin was highly critical of religion, saying in his book Religion <blockquote> Atheism is a natural and inseparable part of Marxism, of the theory and practice of scientific socialism.
</blockquote> In About the attitude of the working party toward the religion, he wrote <blockquote>Religion is the opium of the people: this saying of Marx is the cornerstone of the entire ideology of Marxism about religion.
All modern religions and churches, all and of every kind of religious organizations are always considered by Marxism as the organs of bourgeois reaction, used for the protection of the exploitation and the stupefaction of the working class.
However, while Lenin was critical of religion, he also specifically made a point to not include it in Our Programme or his ideological goals, saying <blockquote>But under no circumstances ought we to fall into the error of posing the religious question in an abstract, idealistic fashion, as an “intellectual” question unconnected with the class struggle, as is not infrequently done by the radical-democrats from among the bourgeoisie.
It would be stupid to think that, in a society based on the endless oppression and coarsening of the worker masses, religious prejudices could be dispelled by purely propaganda methods.
It would be bourgeois narrow-mindedness to forget that the yoke of religion that weighs upon mankind is merely a product and reflection of the economic yoke within society.
No number of pamphlets and no amount of preaching can enlighten the proletariat, if it is not enlightened by its own struggle against the dark forces of capitalism.
Unity in this really revolutionary struggle of the oppressed class for the creation of a paradise on earth is more important to us than unity of proletarian opinion on paradise in heaven.
In their influential book The ABC of Communism, Nikolai Bukharin and Evgenii Preobrazhensky spoke out strongly against religion.
"Communism is incompatible with religious faith", they wrote.
However importance was placed on secularism and non-violence towards the religious.
"But the campaign against the backwardness of the masses in this matter of religion, must be conducted with patience and considerateness, as well as with energy and perseverance.
The credulous crowd is extremely sensitive to anything which hurts its feelings.
To thrust atheism upon the masses, and in conjunction therewith to interfere forcibly with religious practices and to make mock of the objects of popular reverence, would not assist but would hinder the campaign against religion.
If the church were to be persecuted, it would win sympathy among the masses, for persecution would remind them of the almost forgotten days when there was an association between religion and the defence of national freedom; it would strengthen the antisemitic movement; and in general it would mobilize all the vestiges of an ideology which is already beginning to die out."
The Soviet Union was an atheist state, in which religion was largely discouraged and at times heavily persecuted.
According to various Soviet and Western sources, however, over one-third of the country's people professed religious belief.
Christianity and Islam had the most believers.
Christians belonged to various churches: Orthodox, which had the largest number of followers; Catholic; and Baptist and other Protestant denominations.
The majority of the Islamic faithful were Sunni.
Judaism also had many followers.
Other religions, which were practiced by a relatively small number of believers, included Buddhism and Shamanism.
The role of religion in the daily lives of Soviet citizens varied greatly.
Two-thirds of the Soviet population, however, were irreligious.
About half the people, including members of the ruling Communist Party and high-level government officials, professed atheism.
For the majority of Soviet citizens, therefore, religion seemed irrelevant.
Prior to its collapse in late 1991, official figures on religion in the Soviet Union were not available.
State atheism in the Soviet Union was known as "gosateizm" Albania was declared an atheist state by Enver Hoxha, and remained so from 1967 until 1991.
The trend toward state atheism in Albania was taken to an extreme during the regime, when religions, identified as imports foreign to Albanian culture, were banned altogether.
This policy was mainly applied and felt within the borders of the present Albanian state, thus producing a nonreligious majority in the population.
The People's Republic of China was established in 1949 and for much of its early history maintained a hostile attitude toward religion which was seen as emblematic of feudalism and foreign colonialism.
Houses of worship, including temples, mosques, and churches, were converted into non-religious buildings for secular use.
This attitude, however, relaxed considerably in the late 1970s, with the end of the Cultural Revolution.
The 1978 Constitution of the People's Republic of China guaranteed "freedom of religion" with a number of restrictions.
Since the mid-1990s there has been a massive program to rebuild Buddhist and Taoist temples that were destroyed in the Cultural Revolution.
However, the Communist Party of China still remains explicitly atheist, and religion is heavily regulated with only specific state-operated churches, mosques, and temples being allowed for worship.
Pol Pot, leader of the Khmer Rouge regime, suppressed Cambodia’s Buddhist religion: monks were defrocked; temples and artifacts, including statues of Buddha, were destroyed; and people praying or expressing other religious sentiments were often killed.
The Christian and Muslim communities were among the most persecuted, as well.
The Roman Catholic cathedral of Phnom Penh was razed.
The Khmer Rouge forced Muslims to eat pork, which they regard as an abomination.
Many of those who refused were killed.
Christian clergy and Muslim imams were executed.
After the overthrow of the Khmer Rouge, a socialist state more reflective of the values shared by Vietnam and allies of the USSR was established.
Oppression of religious groups was nearly totally ended.
Relations between religious groups and the People's Republic were much more neutral throughout its existence until the restoration of the monarchy a decade later.
In contrast with the brutal repression of the sangha undertaken in Cambodia, the communist government of Laos has not sought to oppose or suppress Buddhism in Laos to any great degree.
Rather, since the early days of the Pathet Lao, communist officials have sought to use the influence and respect afforded to Buddhist clergy to achieve political goals, while discouraging religious practices seen as detrimental to Marxist aims.
Starting as early as the late 1950s, members of the Pathet Lao sought to encourage support for the Communist cause by aligning members of the Lao sangha with the Communist opposition.
Though resisted by the Royal Lao Government, these efforts were fairly successful, and resulted in increased support for the Pathet Lao, particularly in rural communities.
Christian communism can be seen as a radical form of Christian socialism.
It is a theological and political theory based upon the view that the teachings of Jesus Christ compel Christians to support communism as the ideal social system.
Although there is no universal agreement on the exact date when Christian communism was founded, many Christian communists assert that evidence from the Bible suggests that the first Christians, including the Apostles, created their own small communist society in the years following Jesus' death and resurrection.
As such, many advocates of Christian communism argue that it was taught by Jesus and practiced by the Apostles themselves.
In Socialism: Utopian and Scientific, Friedrich Engels draws a certain analogy between the sort of utopian communalism of some of the early Christian communities and the modern-day communist movement, the scientific communist movement representing the proletariat in this era and its world historic transformation of society.
Engels noted both certain similarities and certain contrasts.
From the 1940s through the 1960s, Communists and Islamists sometimes joined forces in opposing colonialism and seeking national independence.
The Tudeh (Iranian Communist party) was allied with the Islamists in their ultimately successful rebellion against the Shah in 1979, although after the Shah was overthrown, the Islamists turned on their one-time allies.
However, the MEK, an exiled communist party which opposes the Islamic Republic still have some power in their headquarters in Camp Ashraf.
Communist philosopher Mir-Said (Mirza) Sultan-Galiev, Stalin's protégé at the Commissariat of Nationalities (Narkomnats), wrote in The Life of Nationalities, the Narkomnats' journal.
During the Russian Civil War, Jews were seen as communist sympathizers and thousands were murdered in pogroms by the White Army.
During the Red Scare in the United States in the 1950s, a representative of the American Jewish Committee assured the powerful House Committee on Un-American Activities that "Judaism and communism are utterly incompatible.".
On the other hand, some Orthodox Jews, including a number of prominent religious figures, actively supported either anarchist or Marxist versions of communism.
Examples include Rabbi Yehuda Ashlag, an outspoken libertarian communist, Russian revolutionary and territorialist leader Isaac Steinberg and Rabbi Abraham Bik, an American communist activist.
Buddhism has been said to be compatible with communism given that both can be interpreted as atheistic and arguably share some similarities regarding their views of the world of nature and the relationship between matter and mind.
Regardless, Buddhists have still been persecuted in some communist states, notably China, Mongolia and Cambodia under the Khmer Rouge.
Many supporters of the Viet Cong were Buddhists, strongly believing in the unification of Vietnam, with many opposing South Vietnam due to former president Ngo Dinh Diem's persecution of Buddhism during the early 1960s.
The current Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso, speaks positively of Marxism, despite the heavy persecution of the Tibetan people by the post-Mao/post-Cultural Revolution Chinese government.
Because of the perceived atheistic nature of communism, some have accused communism of persecuting religion.
In addition, another criticism is that communism is, in itself, a religion.
Throughout the Second Red Scare, the fear of the "Godless Communist" rooted itself as an epithet and a warning to the U.S. in a changing global environment.
As the perceived threat of the "Godless Communist" and materialism to the American way of life grew, "the choice between Americanism and Communism was vital, without room for compromise."
John Antony Bossy FBA (30 April 1933 – 23 October 2015) was a British historian who was for many years a Professor of History at the University of York.
Bossy was educated at Queens' College, Cambridge, where he was inspired by Walter Ullmann.
He lived and lectured in London (1962–66) and Belfast (1966–78) and was a member of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton.
Bossy specialised in the history of religion, particularly in that of Christianity during the Reformation period and beyond.
According to some commentators, his approach fused together elements of disciplines such as sociology and theology.
His Ph.D. thesis was written on the relations between French and English Catholics during the period of the Renaissance which contained within it the seeds of later work regarding Michel de Castelnau.
He frequently wrote for the London Review of Books and published series of articles in the journals Recusant History and Past & Present.
In 1991 The Embassy Affair won the British Crime Writers' Association CWA Gold Dagger for Non-Fiction and (jointly) the Wolfson History Prize.
He moved to the University of York in 1979, where he was professor of History until his retirement in 2000.
In 993 he was elected a Fellow of the British Academy.
Eric Segelberg (20 December 1920 Nykoping, Sweden – 17 October 2001 Uppsala, Sweden) was theologian and a priest of the Lutheran Church of Sweden.
Segelberg was ordained to priesthood in 1944, and he continued to study Theology and Classics at both Uppsala and Oxford Universities, getting doctor's degree in the History of Religion.
His dissertation in 1958 was on the "Maşbūtā.
Studies in the Ritual of the Mandæan Baptism".
He became professor of Classics at Dalhousie University, Canada in 1968.
As Emeritus he returned to Sweden.
Widely known in many fields, he specialized in study of Patristics and the Mandeans and gnosticism.
His main specialization was in liturgics.
His quite outstanding liturgical knowledge was characterizising his studies in history of religion.
Well-known are his studies "The Benedictio Olei in the Apostolic Tradition of Hippolytus", (Oriens Christianus 48, 1964), and "The Ordination of the Mandæan tarmida and its Relation to Jewish and Early Christian Ordination Rites", (Studia Patristica 10, 1970).
Segelberg was member of the Societas Sanctae Birgittae and in Sweden a well known member of the Swedish high church movement Arbetsgemenskapen Kyrklig Förnyelse ("The Church Union in Sweden").
He established a trust in 1984 to enhance Christian theological research, education and youth work.
In Sweden he founded "Segelbergska stiftelsen för liturgivetenskaplig forskning" (The Segelberg foundation on liturgical research), sited in Uppsala,Sweden.
In 1990 it was published a Festschrift to him, collecting a lot of his own writings: Gnostica – mandaica – liturgica.
Opera eius ipsius selecta & collecta septuagenario Erico Segelberg oblata curantibus Jan Bergman, Jan Hjärpe, Per Ström una cum Bibliographia Segelbergiana ab Oloph Bexell redacta ((Acta Universitatis Upsaliensis.
According to the South African National Census of 2001, irreligion accounts for the religious beliefs of 15.1% of people in South Africa.
A 2012 poll indicated that the number of South Africans who consider themselves religious decreased from 83% of the population in 2005 to 64% of the population in 2012.
Fransiskushjelpen is a Catholic charitable organisation in Norway, founded in by Brita Collett Paus in 1956.
Its administration headquarters are in Oslo, at St. Hallvard's Church and Monastery.
The organisation, connected to the Franciscan order, provide help to the seriously ill and dying people and to people in need, regardless of religious beliefs.
The Linobambaki or Linovamvaki were a Catholic community in Cyprus who had been persecuted for their religion during Ottoman rule.
They assimilated into the Turkish Cypriot community during British rule.
The word Linobambaki comes from Greek , which derives from the combination of the words (lino) "linen" and (vamvaki) "cotton".
The term was used as a metaphor in order to demonstrate that even though they had Latin Catholic origins, they chose to appear outwardly Muslim.
The Ottoman–Venetian War (1570–73) concluded with the remainder of Cyprus under Ottoman rule, and immediately after the war, sanctions were put in place for the Latin population of the island.
With Ottoman-Venetian rivalry at its peak, the Ottomans feared the security risk posed by the Latin Catholics of Cyprus, and in particular that they would entice the Venetians to return.
As a result, Ottoman tolerance towards the Catholic community was much less than towards the Greek Orthodox community.
In addition to political and religious pressure, there was an economic oppression that included removing their rights to own property.
The Catholic inhabitants affected by these acts consisted of Latins, Venetians, Genoeses, Maronites and Armenians who had converted to Islam in order to avoid slavery, oppression, or death and eventually derived the name of Linobambaki.
The Linobambaki did not outwardly practice or demonstrate their religious beliefs, due to their faux conversion.
Thus in their daily life, they chose to have either one Christian and one Muslim name, or a common name found in both faiths like Ibrahim (Abraham), Yusuf (Joseph) or Musa (Moses).
At annual conscription they were often drafted into the Ottoman army, and they avoided paying taxes for non-Muslims.
The Linobambaki did not entirely convert to a traditional Muslim life, and only demonstrated religious practices and beliefs that would gain them advantages only afforded to Muslims.
For example, they frequently consumed alcohol and pork, and didn’t attend religious services; traditions similar to continuing Turkish Cypriot culture today.
Many of the Linobambaki villages have Christian saint names that begin with άγιος (ayios), or “saint” to attribute their Latin Catholic origins.
Linobambaki’s cultural roots and history can be found throughout Turkish Cypriot life and literature.
For example, two of the most prominent main characters from Cypriot folklore are “Gavur Imam” and “Hasan Bulli”.
Linobambaki became a part of the majority of all uprisings and revolts against Ottoman rule, and other local government bodies on the island.
Such pseudo-Muslim Catholics are not unique to Cyprus, also existing in Albania, Kosovo, and Bosnia.
Many of the villages and neighbouring areas accepted as Turkish Cypriot estates, were formerly Linobambaki activity centers.
The Ottoman Empire's millet system was abolished during British administration.
In this period, the people of Cyprus were split into two main groups in censuses and administrative records.
Because of the polarization politics of the British administration, Linobambaki were integrated into the Turkish Cypriot community.
There were still Greek speaking settlements that identified themselves as Turkish Cypriots during the 1950s; settlements such as Lapithos, Platanissos, Agios Symeon and Galinoporni.
There is currently a non-governmental organization called "LINOBAMBAKI" in Cyprus.
James E. West, better known as Jim West (born August 29, 1960) is an anti-death penalty activist, Christian pacifist, biblical scholar and biblioblogger.
He is an adjunct professor at the Quartz Hill School of Theology, California.
He holds a Doctorate of Theology from the unaccredited Andersonville Theological Seminary of Camilla, Georgia.
West also pastors the Petros Baptist Church in Tennessee.
Jim West was one of the first biblical scholars to blog, also known as biblioblogging, highlighting trends in biblical studies, new findings in archeology, and acting as a pundit on cultural events.
He currently (from January 8, 2010) blogs at Zwinglius Redivivus.
He previously blogged at Jim West (deleted December 31, 2009), and before that at Dr. Jim West (deleted February 20, 2008), and before that at First Baptist Church of Petros (deleted October 2006), and originally at Biblical Theology (deleted January 1, 2006).
His blog has frequently featured as the number one biblioblog of the month according to the rankings at Free Old Testament Audio Website Blog and previously at The Biblioblog Top 50.
Jim West was a key negotiator in the decision on September 11, 2009 by the Society of Biblical Literature (SBL) to grant bibliobloggers affiliate status.
He was a founding member of the steering committee responsible for reviewing proposals for biblioblogging sessions at the SBL, the first of which is at Atlanta, November 2010, although he no longer serves on that committee.
West is primarily concerned with studies focused on Zwingli, the Reformation, and biblical archeology.
He is a member of the American Schools of Oriental Research (ASOR) Media Relations Committee, which is responsible for debunking spurious archeological claims.
As a Baptist pastor, West has been outspoken on issues within the Baptist Church.
West has rejected moves by some Baptists to observe Lent, "because for Baptists repentance can't be confined to a mere 40-day period preceded by the most intense gluttony and occupied with the setting aside of trivial pleasantries and followed by a return to the same-old, same-old".
West is also against the trend of some Baptists who are abandoning the public school system in favor of private religious education.
West wrote on his blog at time: "The only people who pull their kids from public schools out of fear are the same sort who haven't ever read the Bible in Greek or Hebrew.
In other words, they are the sort of people who get all their information second-hand.
This whole crusade is nothing but another in the long line of senseless crusades entered into by frenzied, uninformed, twaddling and prattling mobs of unwashed peasants.
And it is doomed to failure.
West is also against home schooling, declaring "In short, in my estimation, the problem with homeschooling from a theological point of view is that it embodies a 'theology of glory' and ignores, or even discounts the 'theology of the cross'.
It fears; it lives in fearfulness, and it has forgotten that 'perfect love casts out fear'" and "finally it supposes that society, social structures, and God ordained offices are evil."
Roy A. Cheville (October 2, 1897&ndash;April 6, 1986) was a religious leader, theologian and educator in the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, or Community of Christ, as it is known today.
Cheville graduated from Graceland University in 1921 with an Associate of Arts (A.A.) degree in liberal arts and religious education.
[ [1] In 1926, he authored Graceland's Alma Mater Hymn while on the faculty.
He obtained his Ph.
B. in 1922, an A.M in Divinity in 1923, a D.B.
in Practical Theology in 1925, and later a Ph.
D. in Religion in 1942, all from the University of Chicago.
He was the first member of his denomination to complete a doctoral level religious education.
Cheville was regarded as an influential professor of Religion at Graceland from 1923 to 1960 and also served as the campus pastor.
Cheville taught many introductory religion courses from his own text, “Growing Up In Religion” stressing that a view of God restricted to scriptural and doctrinal traditions was too small and confining.
Cheville was called to the office of Presiding Patriarch in the RLDS Church in 1958 by W. Wallace Smith and was the first person to serve in that office who was not a direct descendant of Joseph Smith In that role, he presided over the Order of Evangelists, which had 89 members at that time.
He authored more than 345 articles, 20 pamphlets and 25 books on Christian family life, spirituality, church history, theology, scriptures, and other religious topics.
He was an authority on the subject of religious socialization, but his position at Graceland University and later as Presiding Patriarch provided him with a platform from which he could be heard on a wide variety of subjects.
His 1962 text “Did the Light Go Out?” represented a turn away from the traditional RLDS viewpoint regarding the great apostasy.
He wrote numerous hymn texts published in Hymns of the Saints and prior hymnals, including “Afar in Old Judea” and had a reputation as a vigorous song leader and a self-styled humorist.
The Cheville Chapel at Graceland University is named in his honor.
The University of Dallas School of Ministry began in 1987 as the Institute for Religious and Pastoral Studies (IRPS), offering masters degrees in theological studies (MTS) and religious education (MRE).
The founders of the School of Ministry envisaged an institute dedicated to training ministers who could respond to pastoral needs in their local Church communities.
As such, the School has adopted a “practitioner” model program so as to integrate preparation for practical ministry with study of the more abstract elements of theology.
IRPS was renamed the School of Ministry in April, 2007.
The University of Dallas School of Ministry is one of the few Catholic universities in the U.S. that offer a comprehensive, four-year Catholic Biblical School (CBS) certification program.
This program, which covers every book of the Bible, is also offered online and in both English and Spanish.
The CBS is the largest program of its kind among all Catholic universities in the U.S. based on 2007 enrollment numbers.
The School of Ministry offers the nation’s only Rome study program that is fully integrated into its master’s degree programs.
Courses are taught at the University’s campus in Rome by members of the School’s faculty and other top theological scholars.
The University of Dallas’ School of Ministry is the only Catholic school in the country to offer its entire Master of Theological Studies degree program and CBS program online, as well as selected courses in its other master’s degree programs.
The School of Ministry offers a variety of Masters degrees and graduate certificates.
Graduate students can pursue Masters degrees in: Theological Studies (MTS), Religious Education (MRE), Catholic School Leadership (MCSL), Catholic School Teaching (MCST), and Pastoral Ministry (MPM).
Graduate Certificates are also available in the same fields.
Masters classes are offered onsite at the University of Dallas main campus at Irving (Texas), and at Frisco (Texas), Shreveport (Louisiana) as well as online.
Onsite Classes are offered weekdays, weeknights and weekends.
Online classes can be taken at any time during the week.
The School of Ministry Catholic Biblical School is a four-year program of intensive study covering the entire Bible.
Students can pursue a Masters degree or the Biblical School online.
The School of Ministry is a leading innovator in online theological education.
The advanced technologies used by the School of Ministry mean it is one of the very few Catholic masters degrees in theology that can be done entirely online, with no residential or on-site requirements.
The School of Ministry provides the academic component of deacon formation for the dioceses of Tyler, Shreveport, and Dallas.
Deacon formation is offered in both English and Spanish language.
This comprehensive program is offered over four years by the School of Ministry.
The program offers college level classes for adults wanting to learn more about their faith.
The program is open to people of all ages and backgrounds.
The School of Ministry has about 125 graduate students, 620 Biblical School students and 130 students in Adult Faith Formation and Deacon Formation programs.
Most students are part-time students.
On-site students come from the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, surrounding parts of Texas.
Online students come from all over the United States and around the world.
The School of Ministry has ten full-time faculty and a number of part-time faculty.
All full-time faculty teaching in the School of Ministry Graduate program hold a doctorate.
The School of Ministry offers Masters degrees on-site and online.
School of Ministry conducts classes in satellite campuses including Frisco, TX.
Adamovićevo Naselje ( ) is a quarter of the city of Novi Sad in the Serbian province of Vojvodina.
The northern border of Adamovićevo Naselje is Futoška ulica (Futoška Street), the eastern borders are Ulica Vojvode Knićanina (Vojvoda Knićanin Street) and Ulica Kola srpskih sestara (Kolo srpskih sestara Street), the southern border is Bulevar cara Lazara (Boulevard of tzar Lazar), and the western border is Bulevar Evrope (Boulevard of Europe).
In other words, Adamovićevo Naselje is located between Liman 4 in the south, Grbavica in the east, Telep in the west, and Sajmište with Provincial hospital in the north.
There are two schools in Adamovićevo Naselje: Vasa Stajić elementary school, and April 7 secondary school of medicine.
This part of the city is mostly composed of private houses, but in recent time (circa from the year 2000), more tier buildings have been built, mostly on major artery, Cara Dušana Street.
The Institute for public health of Vojvodina (also known as "Higijenski zavod") and University of Novi Sad Institute for poplar research (Institut za topolarstvo) are situated within the neighborhood.
Due to its natural beauty and convenient location near Novi Sad's center, Adamovićevo Naselje is home to some of the city's wealthiest families.
It houses business headquarters and/or private homes of the owners of "Swisslion" (food and candy industry), "Matijević" (meat industry, "Aleksandar" (real-estate developers), "Rodić MB" (retail company), etc.
In year 2006, "Subotički bulevar" (Subotica Boulevard) was built.
It is located in the place where railway tracks used to run through (space formerly occupied by Ulica Polgar Andraša (Polgar Andraš Street) and Ulica Novaka Radonjića (Novak Radonjić Street)), on the western border of Adamovićevo Naselje.
Since completion of the new boulevard, many tier buildings were built in this area, with many more being under construction.
Its old name was Daranjijevo Naselje (Daranji Telep).
In 1927, it was named Adamovićevo Naselje after a famous Adamović family.
Until 1944, name Adamovićevo Naselje was used for both, present-day Adamovićevo Naselje and present-day Telep, but since 1944, Telep is considered a separate neighborhood.
Seat of the local municipality "7.
Juli" (which also includes some parts of Grbavica neighborhood) is located in Adamovićevo Naselje, in Miše Dimitrijevića street.
There are several religious buildings in the neighborhood: jpg|Protestant theological college in Adamovićevo Naselje Image:Novi_Sad,_Christian_Baptist_Church.j jpg|Christian Baptist Church and Evangelic Church in Adamovićevo Naselje Image:Mesdzid islamske zajednice ns.jpg|Masjid of Islamic Religious Community in Adamovićevo Naselje Image:Novi_Sad,_Religious_building_of_Protestant_Christian_Community.j jpg|Religious building of Protestant Christian Community in Adamovićevo Naselje Image:Novi_Sad,_Jehovah's_Witnesses_prayer_hall.j jpg|Jehovah's Witnesses prayer hall in Adamovićevo Naselje </gallery> Lines 2, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56 and 70 of municipal transportation company JGSP Novi Sad are going through or pass by Adamovićevo naselje.
The Kalika Purana ( , ) (ca.
10th century) is a Hindu religious text, considered as one of the 18 Upapuranas.
The extant text contains 98 chapters with over 9000 stanzas and is the only work of the genre dedicated to the worship of the goddess Kali in her manifold forms such as Girija, Devi, Bhadrakali, and Mahamaya.
This text describes in detail the rivers and mountains at Kamarupa tirtha and mentions the Kamakhya temple.
It glorifies the goddess Kamakhya, or Kamakshi and details the ritual procedures required for worshiping her.
The Kalika Purana is equally well known, and both feared and slandered, for its detailed description of human sacrifice; an ancient and very common ritual most humans/cultures don't like to be reminded of.
However, the main purpose of the text seems to be an attempt to close the gap between mainstream religious practice and the "forbidden" tantric methods - like use of the panchamakara (meat, wine, fish, parched grain and sexual intercourse) in a ritual context.
The work belongs, therefore, to the goddess-oriented Shakta branch of Hinduism.
Most probably it was composed in Kamarupa (modern Assam).
It is an important work which has been quoted as an authority by the comparatively late Nibandha (digests of the smritis) writers from all over India, especially regarding Shakti worship.
This Upapurana contains gratuitous material which refers to events and conditions of the remote past.
It is also one of the rare Hindu texts that actually mentions the word "Hindu".
According to Hazra, there existed a text that was older than the extant one, and that the origin of that text was Bengal.
This is refuted by Shastri, who claim that the evidence provided by Hazra for an earlier text can be explained by other means, without invoking an older text.
According to Shastri, the local descriptions; the exposition of the myth of Naraka from who all the dynasties of Kamarupa drew their lineage; the description of the myth of Brahmaputra river and the claim in the text that Kamarupa was holier than even Varanasi points to the fact that the text was composed in Kamarupa.
References to Kalidasa and Magha (7th century), provide the upper limit of the text.
Since Ratna Pala (920-960), the second of Kamarupa-Pala kings moved his capital from Harupeshwar to Durjaya, the reference in the Kalika Purana to Durjaya hills with Pragjyotisha in the east makes Ratna Pala's reign (10th century) the lower limit of the text.
The explanation in the text for the Mlechchha population, and the indication of a parallel explanation in Harjaravarman's (815-832) Hyunthal copper plate inscription places the text closer to his reign.
Thus, the text is dated to late 9th to early 10th centuries.
The earliest printed edition of this text was published by the Venkateshvara Press, Bombay in 1829 Saka Era (1907) followed by the Vangavasi Press, Calcutta in 1316 Bangabda (1909).
Masjid An-Nahdhah, or An-Nahdhah Mosque, is a mosque in Singapore located at Bishan Street 14 in the Bishan district.
This mosque is the sixth one to be built under Phase III of the Mosque Building Fund programme to serve the needs of the Muslim community around the Bishan area.
The mosque can accommodate about 4,000 people and was opened on January 6, 2006.
The mosque complex also houses MUIS's Harmony Centre where visitors can learn of the Muslim Community and Islam as practiced in multi-cultural Singapore.
Being the first of its kind in a Singapore mosque, the 2-storey Harmony Centre has exhibits, artifacts and information on Islamic civilisation and lifestyle.
Contemporary issues in Islam and Inter-faith understanding are also featured at the Harmony Centre through talks and activities.
The centre was inaugurated in October 2006.
Situated in the heartland of Singapore, An-Nahdhah Mosque is a new generation mosque serving both the religious and spiritual needs of the Muslim community as well as providing platform for other social services.
In line with the concept of a mosque being multi-functional with the prime role facilitating the creation of an excellent Muslim community, the design approach goes beyond the traditional notion and expectations of a mosque Apart from fulfilling its basic function as a centre for religious practices, the design encompasses and provides for the mosque to perform other pillars of the mosque's activities - Religious Education, Family, Youth and Social Development and as a center for Information Services and Referrals.
The mosque is designed so that most area can be used as extensions to the praying area (e.g.
basement, theaterette, multi-purpose room and classrooms).
Conceptually, An-Nahdhah Mosque reflect the Muslim community's support towards multi-racial integration and coexistence with the community at large.
Adopting an open and interactive approach, An-Nahdhah Mosque's more non-traditional and domeless look is unique and blends well with the surroundings.
It projects Islam in its essence - which is a religion that is not only contemporary but one which is also outward looking that promotes religious awareness within the larger Singapore.
The distinctive and fashionable minaret is symbolic as a unification of the five pillars of Islam whereas the curtain wall façade expresses dynamism signifying modern day relevance.
Prominent and acting as a beacon recognisable from afar, the minaret distinguishes the mosque from commercial buildings in the vicinity.
Though not similar in form as other traditional minarets, it remains distinct and unique yet identifiable Oriented towards the Qibla, the prayer hall is the focal point of the mosque.
A decorative coloured glass feature with Arabic inscription and marble-clad columns accentuates the mihrab wall.
Flanked by solid timber doors dressed with intricately designed motifs, the sense of calm and serenity in the hall culminates with a decorative ceiling illuminated by carefully focused direct lighting.
The intricate motifs on door flow effortlessly to the carpeting.
Samuel Solomon Cohon (22 March 1888 – 22 August 1959) was a rabbi and Chair of Theology in Hebrew Union College, a prominent leader of American Reform Judaism in the mid-20th Century.
Cohon was born in Lohi (modern Belorussian: Лагі) Minsk Governorate – it is unknown in which of the two settlements named thus, whether the one Krupki Raion or at the Lahoysk Raion – then in the Russian Empire.
His parents were Solomon Cohon, a shoemaker, and Rachel née Starobinetz.
He was traditionally educated in yeshivas at Byerazino and the city of Minsk.
In 1904, the sixteen-year-old Cohon immigrated to the United States, He then chose a rabbinic career and began attending Hebrew Union College while studying concurrently for an A.B.
in the University of Cincinnati.
In HUC, he was a co-founder of the Ivriah Society, a club where several students and professors met to discuss matters of Hebrew culture and conversed only in that language.
It was linked with the Cincinnati chapter of Poale Zion, serving as a small Zionist hub within the largely non-or-anti Zionist atmosphere.
Cohon was ordained and joined the Central Conference of American Rabbis in 1912, being naturalized during the same year.
On 12 June he married Irma Reinhart.
His first post was in Congregation Oheb Zedakiah at Springfield, Ohio.
In 1913 he transferred to Zion Congregation, Chicago, which he headed for six years.
From 1919 to 1923 he served in the city's Temple Mizaph, which he founded himself.
From 1920 he was also the director of the Chicago Jewish Normal School.
He also opened a small seminary which soon developed into the Spertus Institute for Jewish Learning and Leadership.
In 1923, Rabbi Kaufmann Kohler retired from the presidency of Hebrew Union College.
Kohler, a native of Fürth, symbolized the older generation of Reform rabbis who championed the rationalistic and ritually minimalist "Classical" era, embodied in the 1885 Pittsburgh Platform.
A new strata of Eastern Europeans, who had more sympathy toward traditional mores, was rising through the ranks, like Solomon Freehof and Emanuel Gamoran.
Cohon, prominent among them, was called to replace the departed president in the office of HUC Chair of Theology.
At the time, most students paid little heed to the subject.
Cohon believed that the Classicists overemphasized morals and ethics, ignoring the important functions of ceremonial acts, practical observance and Jewish particularism, expressed in such elements as Hebrew prayer.
He was deeply influenced by Ahad Ha'am and Mordecai Kaplan, who espoused basically Judaism as a Civilization and not a religious belief, though he never accepted it as such.
He was one of the first to criticize the latter for reducing the role of faith to litte more than an appendage to culture and folkways.
Cohon, while agreeing that ethnic solidarity, a sense of continuing tradition and communal life were a major factor in Judaism, never renounced the doctrines of a personal God, divine revelation and the Election of Israel, as did Kaplan.
He worked to introduce his philosophy into the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, where "Classical Reform", strongly identified with native Jews whose forebears arrived from Central Europe in the 1840s and 1850s, was losing ground to new immigrants from Russia and Poland.
Already in 1923, he was responsible for authoring the Revised Union Haggadah, where he inserted more Hebrew and traditional texts in an early manifestation of his ideas.
He also pioneered interest in Jewish mysticism, offering a course in Hasidism which was sparsely attended.
In the strictly theological sense, Cohon did not diverge much from Kohler, who based his own conception on that of Rabbi Abraham Geiger.
Cohon maintained belief in an ongoing revelation of God's will, much en sync with the progress of human consciousness, reflected but not identical with scripture and the conventions of Judaism in the past.
He offered a slight modification in the notion of Election, that was rejected by many contemporary thinkers, describing Israel as "God-choosing", though he stressed this was merely a semantic matter.
As "God-choosing", the people accepted their universal mission to spread knowledge of Him among the nations, another precept he took whole from "Classical" theology.
Cohon also basically affirmed the Immortality of the Soul, another idea that was not without opposition from some quarters, as a tendency for pure humanism was spreading among Reform clergy.
His convictions were of key importance as the movement shed Classicism in favour of a heightened sense of Jewish particularism and communality, laying the foundation for "New Reform Judaism".
Cohon was chiefly interested in restoring a greater role to the collective over the personal sovereignty of the individual, a hallowed tenet of Reform.
In 1931, Cohon published What We Jews Believe, a short primer aimed at initiating unlearned people at the basics of Judaism, in which he also conceitedly expressed his views.
The decade saw the Great Depression, as many communities were short of collapse, the rise of antisemitism in Europe and an influx of immigrants' sons into UAHC, who were befuddled by Reform's advocacy of strict personal autonomy and sought a more coherent and concrete expression of religiosity.
At the CCAR convention of 1935, it was recognized that most rabbis shared at least some of his sentiments, and it was obvious that the 1885 principles of Pittsburgh had little appeal.
President Felix A.
Levy formed a commission to compose a new platform, headed by the Rabbi Samuel Schulman.
His draft was laden with statements largely based on "Classical" precepts, eliciting protests from other members of the CCAR.
Schulman's style was highly intellectual and equivocal, in line with the Classical negation of any set dogma.
Cohon opposed a definitive dogmatic approach as well, and rejected Levy's tentative proposal to author a comprehensive religious manual for daily practice, but he did espouse a concise and clear document that would give congregants something tangible to uphold.
Himself a member of the commission, he announced that he would form his own version and present it later.
In the 1936 convention, his propositions also encountered resistance.
In 1937, Schulman attempted to recruit more supporters, but later resorted to opposing any binding new platform.
The CCAR was split even between his and Cohon's motions, with exactly eighty-one in favour of each.
Levy intervened and cast the deciding ballot for Cohon, turning the tide.
In the concluding vote, the platform was adopted with only eight against.
The Guiding Principles of Reform Judaism, as the Columbus document was named, reflected its author's perception.
It opened not with matters of belief, but with the declaration that "Judaism is the historical religious experience of the Jewish People".
At the article titled "Religious Practice", he continued "it calls for faithful participation in the life of the Jewish community as it finds expression in home, synagogue and school... As a way of life requires in addition to its moral and spiritual demands...
The retention and development of such customs, symbols and ceremonies as possess inspirational value, the cultivation of distinctive forms of religious art and music and the use of Hebrew."
It also expressed clear support for Zionism: "In the rehabilitation of Palestine, we behold the promise of renewed life for many of our brethren.
We affirm the obligation of all Jewry to aid in its upbuilding as a Jewish homeland."
In 1940, Cohon participated in the liturgy committee entrusted with the revision of the Union Prayer Book, including much more Hebrew and traditional formulae.
In 1948, he published his seminal Judaism: A Way of Life.
He lectured at many institutions and wrote many other monographs and articles.
In 1956 he retired from his post as Chair of Theology but remained a research fellow, dying at Los Angeles three years later.
He and Irma had one son, Baruch Joseph Cohon.
Lectures and Conversations on Aesthetics, Psychology, and Religious Belief ( ) is a series of notes transcribed by Yorick Smythies, Rush Rhees, and James Taylor from assorted lectures by Ludwig Wittgenstein, and published in 1967.
The lectures, at which Casimir Lewy was present, contain Wittgenstein's thoughts about aesthetics and religion, alongside a critique of psychoanalysis.
Wittgensteinian fideism originates from the remarks in the Lectures.
It is noteworthy that Eberhard Bubser in the introduction of the German edition states that: ″Wittgenstein would surely have not approved this release [...]″ (″Wittgenstein hätte diese Ausgabe bestimmt nicht gebilligt [...]″).
One question Wittgenstein raises in his Lectures on Aesthetics is how we learn to use and recognize the words used to make an aesthetic judgment, such as ″beautiful″ (″schön″) or ″nice″ or (″fein″).
He suggests that these words are firstly and often used like interjections or gestures.
Wittgenstein also notes that we seldom use these words in everyday language to make aesthetic judgments, but rather use words like ″right″ (″richtig″) or ″correct″ (″korrekt″).
With regard to aesthetic pleasures, he also names a question that is recently under debate in aesthetics: How are distinctly aesthetic pleasures different from more ordinary pleasures?
He makes a point in stating that ″One uses the same term in both cases [...]″ (″ Man gebraucht in beiden Fällen [...] dasselbe Wort″).
A recurring theme in these lectures is also Wittgenstein's firm rejection of the possibility that psychology may explain aesthetic experiences or judgments.
This opinion is based on Wittgenstein's view that psychological (behaviorist) experiments would generate results based on mere descriptions of behavior and generalizations across large numbers of observers.
In his Lectures on Religious Belief (Vorlesungen über den religiösen Glauben), Wittgenstein argues, among other things, that superficial grammatical similarities in the forms of both religious and factual statements mislead us into believing that they are fundamentally identical states of "belief."
This grammatical similarity, Wittgenstein argues, is merely a parallel expression of drastically different processes.
"The expression of belief", Wittgenstein notes, "may play an absolutely minor role."
Marxist&ndash;Leninist atheism ( ) is a part of the wider Marxist&ndash;Leninist philosophy (the type of Marxist philosophy found in the Soviet Union), which was irreligious and anti-clerical, while at the same time advocating a materialist understanding of nature.
Marxism–Leninism holds that religion is the opium of the people, in the sense of promoting passive acceptance of suffering on Earth in the hope of eternal reward.
Therefore, Marxism–Leninism advocates the abolition of religion and the acceptance of atheism.
Marxist–Leninist atheism has its roots in the philosophy of Ludwig Feuerbach, G.W.F.
Hegel, Karl Marx, and Vladimir Lenin.
Some non-Soviet Marxists opposed this antireligious stance, and in certain forms of Marxist thinking, such as the liberation theology movements in Latin America among others, Marxist–Leninist atheism was rejected entirely.
Marx, from the earliest times in his career, had been heavily involved in debates surrounding the philosophy of religion in early-19th century Germany.
Bitter controversies surrounding the proper interpretation of the Hegelian philosophical legacy greatly formed Marx’s thinking about religion.
The Hegelians considered philosophy as an enterprise meant to serve the insights of religious comprehension, and Hegel had rationalized the fundamentals of the Christian faith in his elaborate philosophy of spirit.
Hegel, while being critical of contemporary dogmatic religion, retained an intellectual interest in the ontological and epistemological beliefs of Christianity.
His philosophy was compatible with theological views, and religious explanations of the deepest questions of being were considered unquestionably valuable by him, but needing additional clarification, systematization and argumentative justification.
His philosophy worked as a conceptual enterprise based upon the truths of his faith.
His legacy was debated after his death in 1831 between the ‘Young Hegelians’ and materialist atheists, including especially the German philosopher Ludwig Feuerbach.
Marx sided with the materialist atheists in his rejection of all forms of religious philosophy, including the most liberal forms of such, and Feuerbach greatly influenced him.
Feuerbach wanted to separate philosophy from religion and to give philosophers intellectual autonomy from religion in their interpretation of reality.
Feuerbach objected to Hegel’s philosophical notions that he believed were based on his religious views.
Feuerbach attacked the conceptual foundations of theology and wanted to undermine religion by introducing a new religion of humanity by redirecting fundamental human concerns of dignity, the meaning of life, morality and purpose of existence within an invented atheistic religion that did not hold belief in anything supernatural, but which would serve as an answer to these concerns.
Feuerbach considered that the antithesis of human and divine was based on an antithesis between human nature generally and individual humans, and came to the conclusion that humanity as a species (but just not as individuals) possessed within itself all the attributes that merited worship and that people had created God as a reflection of these attributes.
He wrote: <blockquote> But the idea of deity coincides with the idea of humanity.
All divine attributes, all the attributes which make God God, are attributes of the species – attributes which in the individual are limited, but the limits of which are abolished in the essence of the species, and even in its existence, in so far as it has its complete existence only in all men taken together.< </blockquote> Feuerbach wanted to destroy all religious commitments and to encourage an intensive hatred towards the old God.
All religious institutions needed to be eradicated from the earth and from the memory of coming generations, so that they would never again find power over people’s minds through their deception and promotion of fear from the mystical forces of God.
It was this thinking that the young Karl Marx was deeply attracted by, and Marx adopted much of Feuerbach’s thought into his own philosophical worldview.
Marx considered that the higher goals of humanity would justify any radicalism, both intellectual as well as social/political radicalism in order to achieve its ends.
In his rejection of all religious thought, Marx considered the contributions of religion over the centuries to be unimportant and irrelevant to the future of humanity.
The autonomy of humanity from the realm of supernatural forces was considered by Marx as an axiomatic ontological truth that had been developed since ancient times, and he considered it to have an even more respectable tradition than Christianity.
He argued that religious belief had been invented as a reaction against the suffering and injustice of the world.
In Marx's view, the poor and oppressed were the original creators of religion, and they used it as a way to reassure themselves that they would have a better life in the future, after death.
Thus, it served as a kind of "opium," or a way to escape the harsh realities of the world.
<blockquote>Religious suffering is, at one and the same time, the expression of real suffering and a protest against real suffering.
Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world, and the soul of soulless conditions.
It is the opium of the people.< </blockquote> Furthermore, in his view, atheistic philosophy had liberated human beings from suppressing their natural potential and allowed for people to realize that they, rather than any supernatural force that required obedience, were the masters of reality.
Marx’s opposition to religion was based especially upon this view in that he believed religion alienated humans from reality and held them back from their true potential.
He therefore considered that religion needed to be removed from society.
<blockquote>The decomposition of man into Jew and citizen, Protestant and citizen, religious man and citizen, is neither a deception directed against citizenhood, nor is it a circumvention of political emancipation, it is political emancipation itself, the political method of emancipating oneself from religion.
Of course, in periods when the political state as such is born violently out of civil society, when political liberation is the form in which men strive to achieve their liberation, the state can and must go as far as the abolition of religion, the destruction of religion.
But it can do so only in the same way that it proceeds to the abolition of private property, to the maximum, to confiscation, to progressive taxation, just as it goes as far as the abolition of life, the guillotine.
At times of special self-confidence, political life seeks to suppress its prerequisite, civil society and the elements composing this society, and to constitute itself as the real species-life of man, devoid of contradictions.
But, it can achieve this only by coming into violent contradiction with its own conditions of life, only by declaring the revolution to be permanent, and, therefore, the political drama necessarily ends with the re-establishment of religion, private property, and all elements of civil society, just as war ends with peace.< </blockquote> Marx came to see that religion was determined by the economic superstructure and therefore he believed abolishing class society would lead to an end to religion.
He wrote much about these things before he had much developed his ideas concerning the abolition of private property and communism.
Hostility towards religion was in fact the beginning of Marx’s philosophical career and it preceded dialectic materialism.
It became critically fused with his economic and social ideas in his claim that religion, along with all other forms of thought, was the product of material conditions and the distribution of property.
When the economic structures that created religion were destroyed, religion assumedly would disappear with it.
He therefore believed that religion needed to be combated through a pragmatic approach of attacking the economic base of religion and to attack the causes of religion.
He considered that religion was an opiate that people needed in order to support themselves in harsh conditions of life, and he furthermore held the view that these harsh conditions were kept in place with the support of religion.
In order to eliminate religion, he therefore held that he needed to eliminate the harsh conditions that caused people to hold illusory superstitions that comforted them, and in order to eliminate these conditions he concluded that religion, since it supported the existence of such conditions, therefore needed to be eliminated.
<blockquote>The abolition of religion as the illusory happiness of the people is the demand for their real happiness.
To call on them to give up their illusions about their condition is to call on them to give up a condition that requires illusions.
The criticism of religion is, therefore, in embryo, the criticism of that vale of tears of which religion is the halo.< </blockquote> In this way he transformed Feuerbach’s attack on religion from a mainly philosophical critique into a call for physical action.
He therefore held that atheism was the philosophical foundation stone of his ideology, but in itself was insufficient.
<blockquote>Communism begins from the outset (Owen) with atheism; but atheism is at first far from being communism; indeed, that atheism is still mostly an abstraction.< </blockquote> The intellectual atheism held by Feuerbach and others of his time, was transformed by Marx into a more sophisticated consideration and critique of material conditions responsible for religion.
<blockquote>Feuerbach starts out from the fact of religious self-alienation, of the duplication of the world into a religious world and a secular one.
His work consists in resolving the religious world into its secular basis.
But that the secular basis detaches itself from itself and establishes itself as an independent realm in the clouds can only be explained by the cleavages and self-contradictions within this secular basis.
The latter must, therefore, in itself be both understood in its contradiction and revolutionized in practice.
Thus, for instance, after the earthly family is discovered to be the secret of the holy family, the former must then itself be destroyed in theory and in practice.
Feuerbach, consequently, does not see that the “religious sentiment” is itself a social product, and that the abstract individual whom he analyses belongs to a particular form of society.< Dialectical materialism had the task of offering itself as an alternative to religious views of creation.
Human beings were the natural products of the interplay of material forces and there was no room for supernatural interference in human destiny.
Religion had originally come about, according to Marx, as a kind of escape of the exploited classes from the harsh realities of existence and an illusion that comforted one in the hope of a future reward.
Although this was its origin with the oppressed classes, the ruling classes had taken control of religion and used it as a tool of emotional and intellectual control of the masses.
Marx considered Christianity to have been like this, in its origin as a religion for slaves hoping for a reward after their harsh existence, but in later becoming a kind of deceptive ideology that the ruling classes used to maintain the status quo.
<blockquote>It is self-evident, moreover, that “spectres,” “bonds,” “the higher being,” “concept,” “scruple,” are merely the idealistic, spiritual expression, the conception apparently of the isolated individual, the image of very empirical fetters and limitations, within which the mode of production of life and the form of intercourse coupled with it move.< </blockquote> The Christian religion had begun as spiritual protests against the conditions of life, wherein lower classes believed that they were supernaturally favoured over the richer ruling classes.
However, it had deteriorated from its original goals into a kind of false consolation for people who accepted their subjection.
This degeneration was viewed negatively in the later Marxist–Leninist tradition, as a kind of perversion of the original noble goals of religion by the social and cultural elite.
This view that Christianity had been perverted by the elite partly justified revolutionary action in order to abolish it and replace it with atheism.
The young Marx also adopted the views of Georg Friedrich Daumer that Christians offered human sacrifices and consumed human blood and flesh.
He believed that knowledge of these practices had dealt a deathblow to Christianity.
Marx’s hostility towards religion lessened in his later career when he wrote less about the subject and showed less enthusiasm about combating religious belief.
He came to consider later in his life that religion would disappear naturally through the richness of ideas that would emerge from a rationalized order of communistic social life.
This idea, however, would later be attacked by Lenin and the succeeding Soviet establishment even to the point of violence and purges directed at proponents of this ‘rightist’ or ‘mechanicist’ idea of religion disappearing on its own.
In his later life he wrote only about a need to separate religion from the state, but he was still hostile to religious belief.
He believed that belief in the existence of God was immoral and anti-human.
The atheistic element of Communism would be intensified in some Marxist movements after his death.
Friedrich Engels wrote, independently of Marx, on contemporary issues, including religious controversies.
In his works ‘Anti-Dühring’ and ‘Ludwig Feuerbach and the End of Classical German Ideology’, he engaged in criticism on the idealistic worldview in general, including religious outlooks on reality.
He considered that religion was a fantastic reflection in the mind of the powers which caused miserable conditions in earlier stages of history.
He believed that increasing humanity’s control over its existence, would eliminate these fantasies that were produced as a result of humanity’s desperation with the world it lived in.
Since belief in God came about as a result of a need in people for there to be some control over their existence, he therefore reasoned that by eliminating this need, religion (the reflection of this need) would gradually disappear.
<blockquote>And when this act has been accomplished, when society, by taking possession of all means of production and using them on a planned basis, has freed itself and all its members from the bondage in which they are now held by these means of production which they themselves have produced but which confront them as an irresistible alien force, when therefore man no longer merely proposes, but also disposes — only then will the last alien force which is still reflected in religion vanish; and with it will also vanish the religious reflection itself, for the simple reason that then there will be nothing left to reflect.< </blockquote> Engels considered religion as a false consciousness, and incompatible with communism.
Engels, in his lifelong contacts with leaders of Social Democratic and Communist parties in Europe as well as the founders of the First International (the 19th century political union of communist movements), urged them to disseminate and cultivate atheism.
He also called for scientific education on a massive scale in order to overcome the fears and illusions of people who required a religious explanation for the world around them.
He believed that science would provide an explanation for things that people had formerly required religious concepts to fulfill, and by providing this explanation, people would no longer feel a need to have religion for this purpose.
He wrote much about contemporary great scientific discoveries and used them to support the principles of dialectical materialism in all his popular works intended for the ordinary masses in the Communist movements.
These included discoveries in biology, physics, chemistry, anthropology and psychology, all of which Engels used to argue against a need for religious explanations of the world.
He believed that science would make humanity confident of its own self and to embrace its proper lordship over reality.
It would give humanity the ability to control the world he lived in and therefore to overcome the harsh conditions that produced a need in people to believe in a God who controlled the universe.
In his view scientific advancement in his time was justifying the materialist and atheistic outlook on the world that dialectical materialism held.
Speculative philosophy and rational theology became obsolete in light of scientific advancement.
<blockquote>The real unity of the world consists in its materiality, and this is proved not by a few juggled phrases, but by a long and wearisome development of philosophy and natural science.< </blockquote> He also believed that scientific advancement required atheistic materialism to be changed as well and to become scientific rather than being a philosophy apart from the sciences.
<blockquote>This modern materialism, the negation of the negation, is not the mere re-establishment of the old, but adds to the permanent foundations of this old materialism the whole thought-content of two thousand years of development of philosophy and natural science, as well as of the history of these two thousand years.
It is no longer a philosophy at all, but simply a world outlook which has to establish its validity and be applied not in a science of sciences standing apart, but in the real sciences.
Philosophy is therefore "sublated" here, that is, "both overcome and preserved" {D. K. G. 503}; overcome as regards its form, and preserved as regards its real content.< </blockquote> Engels’ views on the need for scientific education and the need for materialistic atheism to rely on science, spread widely among Communists and it would later become a fundamental position of Soviet education, which was hostile to religious belief.
Vladimir Lenin followed this tradition, and considered religion as an opiate that must be always combated by true socialists.
He adapted the ideological ideas of Marx and Engels to the particular context of Russia and his interpretation of Marxism and its anti-religious doctrine was influenced by the intellectual tradition of his own country.
Lenin considered that religion in Russia was the chief ideological tool of the ruling classes to exploit the masses in that it taught subjects to be submissive to their exploiters and it assisted the conscience of the exploiters to believe that acts of charity would merit eternal life.
<blockquote>Religion is one of the forms of spiritual oppression which everywhere weighs down heavily upon the masses of the people, over burdened by their perpetual work for others, by want and isolation.
Impotence of the exploited classes in their struggle against the exploiters just as inevitably gives rise to the belief in a better life after death as impotence of the savage in his battle with nature gives rise to belief in gods, devils, miracles, and the like.
Those who toil and live in want all their lives are taught by religion to be submissive and patient while here on earth, and to take comfort in the hope of a heavenly reward.
But those who live by the labour of others are taught by religion to practise charity while on earth, thus offering them a very cheap way of justifying their entire existence as exploiters and selling them at a moderate price tickets to well-being in heaven.
Religion is opium for the people.
Religion is a sort of spiritual booze, in which the slaves of capital drown their human image, their demand for a life more or less worthy of man.< </blockquote> Since religion was the ideological tool that kept the system in place, Lenin believed atheistic propaganda to be of critical necessity.
To this effect, before the revolution Lenin’s faction devoted a significant portion of their meagre resources to antireligious propaganda, and even during the civil war, Lenin devoted much of his personal energy towards the anti-religious campaign.
The influence of the Orthodox Church especially needed to be weakened in order to undermine the Tsarist régime.
The populace also needed to be prepared in order to make a transition from religious beliefs to atheism, as Communism would require of them.
Lenin considered atheism and theoretical ideas, not as important in themselves, but as weapons to use in the class struggle in order to overthrow the ruling classes that supported themselves with religion.
For this reason he considered it important to maintain an intellectually enlightened Party that did not hold religious superstitions, and he considered that a true socialist must be an atheist.
Theoretical debates and abstract philosophical or theological ideas could not be understood in isolation from the material conditions of society.
Lenin did not believe in the existence of objective and neutral academic research, because he considered, in the tradition of historical materialism, that all intellectual activity was perpetrated and maintained by class interests.
He believed that philosophical debates were always partisan, and his 1909 work ‘Materialism and Empirio-criticism’ was written from this perspective and he also kept extensive notes from the works of Aristotle, Descartes, Kant and Hegel, in which he believed questions concerning the ideological class struggle could be answered.
Lenin had no tolerance for any trace of idealism in the views of either his opponents or his collaborators, and considered that anything short of a fully atheistic materialist outlook was a concession to the ideological dominance of the ruling classes and their religious beliefs.
He considered religion to be political by nature and the primary target of ideological attacks.
Lenin considered militant atheism to be so critical to his faction that he went beyond the Russian atheist tradition of Belinsky, Herzen, and Pisarev and organized a systematic, aggressive and uncompromising movement of antireligious agitation.
He founded a whole institution of professional atheist propagandists in the USSR who spread all over the country after 1917 and who were the ‘foot-soldiers’ of the antireligious campaigns meant to eliminate religion so as to make the populace atheists.
Lenin’s unequivocal hostile intolerance towards religious belief became a distinctive feature of ideological Soviet atheism, which was contrasted with milder antireligious views of Marxists outside the USSR.
His hostility to religion allowed no compromises, such that it even alienated leftist religious believers who sympathised with the Bolsheviks.
It even alienated some leftist atheists who were willing to accommodate religious beliefs.
Attacking religion became far more important for Lenin than it had been for Marx.
A prominent Bolshevik leader and later USSR Commissar for Enlightenment, Anatoli Lunacharsky, was attacked by Lenin for attempting to accommodate pseudo-religious sentiments in the world-view of Communism.
Lunacharsky had carried ideas similar to Feuerbach’s notion of replacing religion with a new atheistic religion that had a place for the sentiments, ceremonies and meanings of religion, but which was compatible with science and possessed no supernatural beliefs (see: God-Building).
Lunacharsky considered that while religion was false and was used as a tool of exploitation, it still cultivated emotion, moral values and desires among masses of people, which the Bolsheviks should take over and manipulate rather than abolish.
These products of religion should have been transformed into humanistic values of a communist morality rather than abolished, when they formed the basis of the psychological and moral integrity of masses of people.
By replacing traditional religion with a new atheistic religion wherein humanity was worshiped rather than God, socialism would achieve much better success, according to Lunacharsky.
He believed this would have less confrontation and abuse of the culture and historical tradition of European civilization.
Lenin was enraged with this idea of Lunacharsky, however, because he considered it a concession to religious belief, and therefore harmful in the extreme.
He claimed it ignored the fact that religion was an ideological tool of suppression of the masses, and he claimed that Lunacharsky’s ideas were a dangerous and unnecessary compromise with the reactionary forces of the Russian Empire.
Militant atheism became the testing principle of sincerity of Marxist commitment to Lenin, and it was a violation of the principles of socialism to compromise even in this way, wherein no supernatural beliefs were invoked, with religious ideas.
Marx had earlier rejected Feuerbach’s proposal for an atheistic religion, and Lenin looked to Marx as his example.
He believed that even the slightest compromise with religious belief would degenerate under intense political pressure into a betrayal of the cause of Communism altogether.
A true communist had to be an atheist according to Lenin.
The policy that began with Lenin and continued for the course of Soviet history was that religion was to be tolerated by the state, but the Party was to do whatever it deemed necessary in order to gradually remove it from society.
Thus, the Soviet state and the Communist Party - which were two separate institutions - were supposed to have two different attitudes towards religion, with the first being neutral and the second being hostile to it.
However, since the USSR was a one-party state, the distinction between Party and state became very blurred over time, with the result that religion was sometimes repressed and sometimes tolerated, to varying degrees.
When writing about the Party's anti-religious stance, Lenin did not see the replacement of religion with atheism as an end to itself, but wrote that it needed to be accompanied by a materialist world-view.
As such, it is as relentlessly hostile to religion as was the materialism of the eighteenth-century Encyclopaedists or the materialism of Feuerbach.
But the dialectical materialism of Marx and Engels goes further than the Encyclopaedists and Feuerbach, for it applies the materialist philosophy to the domain of history, to the domain of the social sciences.
We must combat religion—that is the ABC of all materialism, and consequently of Marxism.
But Marxism is not a materialism which has stopped at the ABC.
It says: We must know how to combat religion, and in order to do so we must explain the source of faith and religion among the masses in a materialist way.
The combating of religion cannot be confined to abstract ideological preaching, and it must not be reduced to such preaching.
It must be linked up with the concrete practice of the class movement, which aims at eliminating the social roots of religion.< Marxism as interpreted by Lenin and his successors required changes in social consciousness and the redirection of people’s beliefs.
Soviet Marxism was considered incompatible with belief in the Supernatural.
Communism required a conscious rejection of religion or else it could not be established.
This was not a secondary priority of the system, nor was it a hostility developed towards religion as a competing or rival system of thought, but it was a core and fundamental teaching of the philosophical doctrine of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union.
Marxist philosophy traditionally involved a thorough scientific critique of religion and an attempt to ‘demystify’ religious belief.
According to Marxist theory, religion was a product of material conditions and the organization of private property.
Working with this premise, the militant atheism of the Soviet leadership initially considered that religion would disappear on its own through the coming of the socialist system.
Therefore, after the revolution, initially the Bolsheviks gave tolerance to religion, with the exception of Orthodoxy (which was subject to persecutions due to its links with Tsarism).
When it became clear after the USSR was established that religion was not dying away on its own, the USSR began general antireligious campaigns.
Combating religious beliefs was considered an absolute duty by Lenin.
The campaigns involved extensive amounts of antireligious propaganda, antireligious legislation, atheistic education, antireligious discrimination, harassment, arrests and also campaigns of violent terror.
Soviet leaders, propagandists and other militant atheists debated for years over the question of what approach was most pragmatic in order to eliminate religion.
The state recruited millions of people, spent billions of roubles, and made incredible efforts towards this end, although it ultimately failed to achieve their goal.
The pragmatic nature of the militant atheism of the USSR, meant that some cooperation and tolerance could exist between the régime and religion when it was deemed to be in the best interests of the state or it was found that certain antireligious tactics would deal more harm than good towards the goal of eliminating religion (e.g.
hardening believers’ religious feelings).
These forms of cooperation and tolerance by no means meant that religion did not need to be eliminated ultimately.
Militant atheism was a profound and fundamental philosophical commitment of the ideology, and not simply the personal convictions of those who ran the regime.
The established presence of Islam in the region that now constitutes modern Turkey dates back to the latter half of the 11th century, when the Seljuks started expanding into eastern Anatolia.
According to religiosity polls, 97.8% of the population identifies as Muslim, and only 2% is non-religious.
Most Muslims in Turkey are Sunnis, forming about 72%, and Alevis of the Shia denomination form about 25% of the Muslim population.
There is also a Twelver Shia community representing 3% of the Muslim population.
During the Muslim conquests of the 7th and early 8th centuries, Arab armies established the Islamic Empire.
The Islamic Golden Age was soon inaugurated by the middle of the 8th century by the ascension of the Abbasid Caliphate and the transfer of the capital from Damascus to Baghdad.
The later period saw initial expansion and the capture of Crete (840).
The Abbasids soon shifted their attention towards the East.
During the later fragmentation of the Abbasid rule and the rise of their Shiite rivals the Fatimids and Buyids, a resurgent Byzantium recaptured Crete and Cilicia in 961, Cyprus in 965, and pushed into the Levant by 975.
The Byzantines successfully contested with the Fatimids for influence in the region until the arrival of the Seljuk Turks who first allied with the Abbasids and then ruled as the de facto rulers.
In 1068 Alp Arslan and allied Turkmen tribes recaptured many Abbasid lands and even invaded Byzantine regions, pushing further into eastern and central Anatolia after a major victory at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071.
The disintegration of the Seljuk dynasty, the first unified Turkic dynasty, resulted in the rise of subsequent, smaller, rival Turkic kingdoms such as the Danishmends, the Sultanate of Rum, and various Atabegs who contested the control of the region during the Crusades and incrementally expanded across Anatolia until the rise of the Ottoman Empire.
Beginning in the twelfth century, new waves of Turkic migrants many of whom belonged to Sufi orders, some of which later incorporated heterodox beliefs .
One Sufi order that appealed to Turks in Anatolia after 1300 was the Safaviyya, an order that was originally Sunni and non-political but later became both Shi'a and political based in northwest Iran.
During the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, the Safavid and similar orders such as the Bektaşi became rivals of the Ottomans—who were orthodox Sunni Muslims—for political control of eastern Anatolia.
Although the Bektaşi order became accepted as a sect of orthodox Sunni Muslims, they did not abandon their heterodox beliefs.
In contrast, the Safavids eventually conquered Iran, shed their heterodox religious beliefs, and became proponents of orthodox Twelver Shi'a Islam.
The conquest of the Byzantine capital of Constantinople—which the Turks called Istanbul—in 1453 enabled the Ottomans to consolidate their empire in Anatolia and Thrace.
The Ottomans later revived the title of caliph during the reign of Sultan Selim.
Despite the absence of a formal institutional structure, Sunni religious functionaries played an important political role.
Justice was dispensed by religious courts; in theory, the codified system of şeriat regulated all aspects of life, at least for the Muslim subjects of the empire.
The head of the judiciary ranked directly below the sultan and was second in power only to the grand vizier.
Early in the Ottoman period, the office of grand mufti of Istanbul evolved into that of Şeyhülislam (shaykh, or leader of Islam), which had ultimate jurisdiction over all the courts in the empire and consequently exercised authority over the interpretation and application of şeriat.
Legal opinions pronounced by the Şeyhülislam were considered definitive interpretations.
The secularization of Turkey started in the society during the last years of the Ottoman Empire and it was the most prominent and most controversial feature of Atatürk's reforms.
Under his leadership, the caliphate&mdash;the supreme politico-religious office of Islam, and symbol of the sultan's claim to world leadership of all Muslims&mdash;was abolished.
The secular power of the religious authorities and functionaries was reduced and eventually eliminated.
The religious foundations were nationalized, and religious education was restricted and for a time prohibited.
The influential and popular mystical orders of the dervish brotherhoods (Tariqa) also were suppressed.
The withdrawal of Turkey, heir to the Ottoman Empire, as the presumptive leader of the world Muslim community was symbolic of the change in the government's relationship to Islam.
Indeed, secularism (or laiklik) became one of the "Kemalist ideology" of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk's anti-clerical program for remaking Turkey.
Whereas Islam had formed the identity of Muslims within the Ottoman Empire, secularism was seen as molding the new Turkish nation and its citizens.
In 1922 the new nationalist regime abolished the Ottoman sultanate, and in 1924 it abolished the caliphate, the religious office that Ottoman sultans had held for four centuries.
Thus, for the first time in Islamic history, no ruler claimed spiritual leadership of Islam.
Atatürk and his associates not only abolished certain religious practices and institutions but also questioned the value of religion, preferring to place their trust in science.
They regarded organized religion as an anachronism and contrasted it unfavorably with "civilization," which to them meant a rationalist, secular culture.
Establishment of secularism in Turkey was not, as it had been in the West, a gradual process of separation of church and state.
In the Ottoman Empire, all spheres of life, at least theoretically, had been subject to traditional religious law, and Sunni religious organizations had been part of the state structure.
However, usually state had authority over the clergy and religious law, even at the Ottoman period (e.g.many Sultans are known to change Şeyhülislams, who do not approve state politics).
When the reformers of the early 1920s opted for a secular state, they removed religion from the sphere of public policy and restricted it exclusively to that of personal morals, behavior, and faith.
Although private observance of religious rituals could continue, religion and religious organization were excluded from public life.
The policies directly affecting religion were numerous and sweeping.
In addition to the abolition of the caliphate, new laws mandated abolition of the office of Şeyhülislam ; abolition of the religious hierarchy; the closing and confiscation of Sufi lodges, meeting places, and monasteries and the outlawing of their rituals and meetings; establishment of government control over the vakıfs, which had been inalienable under Sharia; replacement of sharia with adapted European legal codes; the closing of religious schools; abandonment of the Islamic calendar in favor of the Gregorian calendar used in the West; restrictions on public attire that had religious associations, with the fez outlawed for men and the veil discouraged for women; and the outlawing of the traditional garb of local religious leaders.
Atatürk and his colleagues also attempted to Turkify Islam through official encouragement of such practices as using Turkish rather than Arabic at devotions, substituting the Turkish word Tanri for the Arabic word Allah, and introducing Turkish for the daily calls to prayer.
These changes in devotional practices deeply disturbed many Muslims and caused widespread resentment, which led in 1950 to a return to the Arabic version of the call to prayer, after the opposition party DP won the elections.
Of longer-lasting effect were the regime's measures prohibiting religious education, restricting the building of new mosques, and transferring existing mosques to secular purposes.
Most notably, the Hagia Sophia (Justinian's sixth-century Christian basilica, which had been converted into a mosque by Mehmet II) was made a museum in 1935.
The effect of these changes was to make religion, or more correctly Islam, subject to the control of the state.
Muftis and imams (prayer leaders) were appointed by the government, and religious instruction was taken over by the Ministry of National Education.
As a result of these policies, the Turkish Republic was judged negatively by some sections of the Muslim world.
The expectation of the secular ruling elite that the policies of the 1920s and 1930s would diminish the role of religion in public life did not materialize.
As early as 1925, religious grievances were one of the principal causes of the Şeyh Sait rebellion, an uprising in southeastern Turkey that may have claimed as many as 30,000 lives before being suppressed.
Although Turkey was secularized at the official level, religion remained a strong force at the popular level.
After 1950 some political leaders tried to benefit from popular attachment to religion by espousing support for programs and policies that appealed to the religiously inclined.
Such efforts were opposed by most of the state elite, who believed that secularism was an essential principle of Kemalist Ideology.
This disinclination to appreciate religious values and beliefs gradually led to a polarization of society.
The polarization became especially evident in the 1980s as a new generation of educated but religiously motivated local leaders emerged to challenge the dominance of the secularized political elite.
These new leaders have been assertively proud of Turkey's Islamic heritage and generally have been successful at adapting familiar religious idioms to describe dissatisfaction with various government policies.
By their own example of piety, prayer, and political activism, they have helped to spark a revival of Islamic observance in Turkey.
By 1994 slogans promising that a return to Islam would cure economic ills and solve the problems of bureaucratic inefficiencies had enough general appeal to enable avowed religious candidates to win mayoral elections in Istanbul and Ankara, the country's two largest cities.
Following the relaxation of authoritarian political controls in 1946, large numbers of people began to call openly for a return to traditional religious practice.
During the 1950s, even certain political leaders found it expedient to join religious leaders in advocating more state respect for religion.
A more direct manifestation of the growing reaction against secularism was the revival of the Sufi brotherhoods.
Not only did suppressed Sufi orders such as the Kadiri, Mevlevi, Nakşibendi, Khālidiyyā and Al-Ṭarīqah al-Tijāniyyah reemerge, but new movements were formed, including the Nur Cemaati, Hizmet, Sülaymānīyyā, Community of İskenderpaşa and İsmailağa.
The Tijāni became especially militant in confronting the state.
For example, Tijāni damaged monuments to Atatürk to symbolize their opposition to his policy of secularization.
This was however a very isolated incident and only involved one particular Sheikh of the order.
Throughout the 1950s, there were numerous trials of Ticani and other Sufi leaders for antistate activities.
Simultaneously, however, some movements, notably the Süleymancı and Nurcular, cooperated with those politicians perceived as supportive of pro-Islamic policies.
The Nurcular eventually advocated support for Turkey's multiparty political system, and one of its offshoots Hizmet movement had supported the True Path Party while the Işıkçılar and Enver Ören had openly supported the Motherland Party since the mid-1980s.
The demand for restoration of religious education in public schools began in the late 1940s.
The government initially responded by authorizing religious instruction in state schools for those students whose parents requested it.
Under Democrat Party rule during the 1950s, religious education was made compulsory in secondary schools unless parents made a specific request to have their children excused.
Religious education was made compulsory for all primary and secondary school children in 1982.
Inevitably, the reintroduction of religion into the school curriculum raised the question of religious higher education.
The secular elites, who tended to distrust traditional religious leaders, believed that Islam could be "reformed" if future leaders were trained in state-controlled seminaries.
To further this goal, the government in 1949 established a faculty of divinity at Ankara University to train teachers of Islam and imams.
In 1951 the Democrat Party government set up special secondary schools (İmam Hatip schools) for the training of imams and preachers.
Initially, the imam hatip schools grew very slowly, but their numbers expanded rapidly to more than 250 during the 1970s, when the pro-Islam National Salvation Party participated in coalition governments.
Following the 1980 coup, the military, although secular in orientation, viewed religion as an effective means to counter socialist ideas and thus authorized the construction of ninety more imam hatip high schools.
During the 1970s and 1980s, Islam experienced a kind of political rehabilitation because right-of-center secular leaders perceived religion as a potential bulwark in their ideological struggle with left-of-center secular leaders.
A small advocacy group that became extremely influential was the Hearth of Intellectuals, an organization that maintains that true Turkish culture is a synthesis of the Turks' pre-Islamic traditions and Islam.
According to the Hearth, Islam not only constitutes an essential aspect of Turkish culture but is a force that can be regulated by the state to help socialize the people to be obedient citizens acquiescent to the overall secular order.
After the 1980 military coup, many of the Hearth's proposals for restructuring schools, colleges, and state broadcasting were adopted.
The result was a purge from these state institutions of more than 2,000 intellectuals perceived as espousing leftist ideas incompatible with the Hearth's vision of Turkey's national culture.
The state's more tolerant attitude toward Islam encouraged the proliferation of private religious activities, including the construction of new mosques and Qur'an schools in the cities, the establishment of Islamic centers for research on and conferences about Islam and its role in Turkey, and the establishment of religiously oriented professional and women's journals.
The printing of newspapers, the publication of religious books, and the growth of innumerable religious projects ranging from health centers, child-care facilities, and youth hostels to financial institutions and consumer cooperatives flourished.
When the government legalized private broadcasting after 1990, several Islamic radio stations were organized.
In the summer of 1994, the first Islamic television station, Kanal 7, began broadcasting, first in Istanbul and subsequently in Ankara.
Although the tarikah (the term can sometimes be used to refer to any 'group or sect' some of whom may not even be Muslim) have played a seminal role in Turkey's religious revival and in the mid-1990s still published several of the country's most widely circulated religious journals and newspapers, a new phenomenon, Islamcı aydın (the Islamist intellectual) unaffiliated with the traditional Sufi orders, emerged during the 1980s.
Prolific and popular writers such as Ali Bulaç, Rasim Özdenören, and Ismet Özel have drawn upon their knowledge of Western philosophy, Marxist sociology, and radical Islamist political theory to advocate a modern Islamic perspective that does not hesitate to criticize genuine societal ills while simultaneously remaining faithful to the ethical values and spiritual dimensions of religion.
Islamist intellectuals are harshly critical of Turkey's secular intellectuals, whom they fault for trying to do in Turkey what Western intellectuals did in Europe: substitute worldly materialism, in its capitalist or socialist version, for religious values.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice; however, the Government imposes some restrictions on all religious expression in government offices and state-run institutions, including universities, usually for the stated reason of preserving the secular state, and distance of state to all kinds of beliefs.
The Constitution establishes the country as a secular state and provides for freedom of belief, freedom of worship, and the private dissemination of religious ideas.
However, other constitutional provisions regarding the integrity and existence of the secular state restrict these rights.
The secularity, bearing a meaning of a protection of believers, plays an important role to protect the state.
While most of the secular countries have religious schools and educational system, one in Turkey can only have religious teachings after a state decided age; which is considered as a necessity given the fact that Turkey is the only considerably secular country in the Muslim world, i.e.
it is claimed that conditions to establish secularism on are different than those in Christian world.
The establishment of private religious schools and universities (regardless of what religion) is forbidden.
Only the state controlled Imam Hatip Lisesi is allowed which benefits only Islamic community in Turkey.
This type of high schools teach religious subjects with modern positive science.
However, graduates of these schools cannot go to the university to seek higher education in another field of study for example medicine, law, engineering etc.
; because graduates of these schools are intended to be clerics, rather than being doctors or lawyers.
The Government oversees Muslim religious facilities and education through its Ministry of Religious Affairs (Diyanet İşleri Başkanlığı), which reports directly to the Prime Ministry.
The Diyanet has responsibility for regulating the operation of the country's 75,000 registered mosques and employing local and provincial imams, who are civil servants.
Some groups, particularly Alevis, claim that the Diyanet reflects mainstream Islamic beliefs to the exclusion of other beliefs.
The government asserts that the Diyanet treats equally all who request services.
However, Alevis do not utilize Mosques or the imams for their worship ceremonies.
Alevi ceremonies take place in Cem Houses and led by Dedes who do not benefit from the large budget of the Religious Affairs.
Reforms going in the direction of secularism have been completed under Atatürk (abolition of the Caliphate, etc..).
<br />However, Turkey is not strictly a secular state: However, each is free of his religious beliefs.
Religion is mentioned on the identity documents and there is an administration called "Presidency of Religious Affairs" or Diyanet which exploits Islam to legitimize sometimes State and manages 77,500 mosques.
This state agency, established by Ataturk (1924), finance only Sunni Muslim worship.
Other religions must ensure a financially self-sustaining running and they face administrative obstacles during operation.
When harvesting tax, all Turkish citizens are equal.
The tax rate is not based on religion.
However, through the Diyanet, Turkish citizens are not equal in the use of revenue.
The Presidency of Religious Affairs, which has a budget over U.S. $2.5 billion in 2012, finance only Sunni Muslim worship.
This situation presents a theological problem, insofar as Islam stipulates, through the notion of haram (Qur'an, Surah 6, verse 152), that we must "give full measure and full weight in all justice”.
However, since it was set up, Diyanet, through taxation, use the resources of non-Sunni citizens to fund its administration and only Sunni places of worship.
For example, Câferî Muslims (mostly Azeris) and Alevi Bektashi (mostly Turkmen) participate in the financing of the mosques and the salaries of Sunni imams, while their places of worship, which are not officially recognized by the State, don't receive any funding.
Sufi Orders like Alevi-Bektashi, Bayrami-Jelveti, Halveti (Gulshani, Jerrahi, Nasuhi, Rahmani, Sunbuli, Ussaki), Hurufi-Rüfai, Malamati, Mevlevi, Nakşibendi (Halidi, Haqqani), Qadiri-Galibi and Ja'fari Muslims are not officially recognized.
In 2013, with over 4.6 billion TL (Turkish Lira), Diyanet or Ministry of Religious Affairs, occupies the 16th position of central government expenditure.< <br> The budget allocated to Diyanet is: The vast majority of the present-day Turkish people are Muslim and the most popular school of law is the Hanafite madh'hab of Sunni Islam according to the KONDA Research and Consultancy survey carried out throughout Turkey in 2007.
The Hanafi madhab was the official school of Islamic jurisprudence espoused by the Ottoman Empire and a 2013 survey conducted by the Turkish Directorate of Religious Affairs indicates that 77.5 percent of Turkish Muslims identify themselves as Hanafis.
Although the Maturidi and Ash'ari schools of Islamic theology (which apply Ilm al-Kalam or rational thought to understand the Quran and the hadith) have been the dominant creeds in Turkey due to their widespread acceptance and propagation since the beginning of the Ottoman Empire, the Athari (literalist) creed of the Salafi movement has seen increasing acceptance.
In Turkey, Prophet Muhammad is often called "Hazret-i Muhammed" or "Peygamber Efendimiz".
There are an estimated 15 to 25 million Alevis in Turkey.
The followers of the Ja'fari jurisprudence constitute the third sizable community with their more than three million members and most of them lives in the eastern provinces neighboring to Iran.
Majority of the Alawite people with an estimated population of 300 thousand in Turkey lives in Samandağ and its neighborhood in the Hatay Province.
Folk Islam in Turkey has derived many of its popular practices from Sufism which has good presence in Turkey and Egypt.
Particular Sufi shaikhs - and occasionally other individuals reputed to be pious - were regarded after death as saints having special powers.
Veneration of saints (both male and female) and pilgrimages to their shrines and graves represent an important aspect of popular Islam in the country.
Folk Islam has continued to embrace such practices although the veneration of saints officially has been discouraged since the 1930s.
Plaques posted in various sanctuaries forbid the lighting of candles, the offering of votive objects, and related devotional activities in these places.
Modern day Sufi shaykhs with large adherents in Turkey include Shaykh Mehmet Efendi (residing in Istanbul) and Mawlana Sheikh Nazim Al-Haqqani who resided in Lefka, North Cyprus, until his death in May, 2014.
Those who reject the authority of hadith, known as Quranists, Quraniyoon, or Ahl al-Quran, are also present in Turkey.
Notable Turkish Quranists include scholars like Yasar Nuri Ozturk and Caner Taslaman.
Although intellectual debates on the role of Islam attracted widespread interest, they did not provoke the kind of controversy that erupted over the issue of appropriate attire for Muslim women.
During the early 1980s, female college students who were determined to demonstrate their commitment to Islam began to cover their heads and necks with scarves and wear long, shape-concealing overcoats.
The appearance of these women in the citadels of Turkish secularism shocked those men and women who tended to perceive such attire as a symbol of the Islamic traditionalism they rejected.
Militant secularists persuaded the Higher Education Council to issue a regulation in 1987 forbidding female university students to cover their heads in class.
Protests by thousands of religious students and some university professors forced several universities to waive enforcement of the dress code.
The issue continued to be seriously divisive in the mid-1990s.
Throughout the first half of the 1990s, highly educated, articulate but religiously pious women have appeared in public dressed in Islamic attire that conceals all but their faces and hands.
Other women, especially in Ankara, Istanbul, and İzmir, have demonstrated against such attire by wearing revealing fashions and Atatürk badges.
The issue is discussed and debated in almost every type of forum - artistic, commercial, cultural, economic, political, and religious.
For many citizens of Turkey, women's dress has become the issue that defines whether a Muslim is secularist or religious.
In 2010, the Turkish Higher Educational council (YÖK) lifted the ban on headscarves at the universities.
Moreover, in 2012, the government removed the Official Dress Code in the schools, which would permit students to dress as they like, but this was rescinded in 2013.
Turkey is a founding member of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC, formerly the Organisation of the Islamic Conference).
The headquarters of some Islamic organizations are located in Turkey:
Andrews University Seminary Studies (AUSS) is a refereed scholarly Christian journal published by the Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary at Andrews University.
It is issued twice a year from Berrien Springs, MI.
The journal was founded in 1963 and currently has a circulation of 600 copies.
AUSS publishes research articles and brief notes on the following topics: biblical archaeology and history of antiquity; Hebrew Bible; New Testament; church history of all periods; historical, biblical, and systematic theology; ethics; history of religion and mission; and selected research articles on ministry and Christian education.
Reports of the Andrews University archaeological digs appear regularly in AUSS.
Abstracts of Andrews University dissertations in religion are also published.
Articles usually appear in English, but occasionally an article may be in another major Western language.
Most of the articles are written by Seventh-day Adventist scholars, many of them Theological Seminary professors.
However, subject to the refereeing process, AUSS accepts articles by authors of other persuasions.
Since 1967 AUSS has included reviews of significant new scholarly books in the same areas as its research articles.
Articles are indexed in several scholarly bibliographical works, among which are Religion Index One and Elenchus of Biblica.
Karl Beth (1872–1959) was a German academic involved in the fields of the history of religion, the psychology of religion, and Christianity.
He has been described as "one of the founding fathers of the psychology of religion".
Adolf von Harnack, Otto Pfleiderer, and Wilhelm Dilthey supervised Beth's studies at the University of Berlin, where he earned a doctorate in 1898 for his dissertation Die Grundanschauungen Schleiermachers in seinem ersten Entwurf der philosophischen Sittenlehre.
Beth became an instructor of systematic theology at the university in 1901.
Shortly afterwards, he toured Christian communities in the Greek and Turkish parts of the Mediterranean, where he gathered material for his book Die orientalische Christenheit der Mittelmeerlander.
Published in 1902, this book helped Western Protestants gain a better understanding of Eastern Orthodoxy.
In 1906, Beth moved to the Protestant Theological Faculty at the University of Vienna, and in the same year married Marianne Weisl.
He was promoted to a full professorship in Vienna in 1908.
He taught systematic theology and, partly influenced by Johannes Reinke and Carl Nägeli proposed a Neo-vitalist view.
He partly accepted the idea of evolution as biological change, but at the same time, he criticized the idea of a driving process of natural selection for it suggested chance instead of "direct divine intervention."
Recalling the limitis of science, Beth insisted that religious experience should not be interpreted out of context, and that science and religion should co-exist together.
In 1922, Beth was one of the parties involved in the foundation of the Research Institute for the Psychology of Religion in Vienna.
He also served as the editor of Zeitschrift fur Religionspsychologie from 1927 to 1938.
He wrote the main article on "Orthodox-anatolische Kirche" and several related articles for the second edition of Religion in Geschichte und Gegenwart, published between 1929 and 1932.
By 1938, Beth was the Dean of Faculty at the University of Vienna.
After the 1938 Anschluss in which Germany annexed Austria, Beth's wife Marianne (a lawyer from a Jewish family who had converted to Christianity on marrying) was unable to continue practicing law.
The Beths emigrated to the United States; Karl Beth was on the faculty of the Meadville Lombard Theological School from 1941 to 1944, where he primarily taught in the field of the history of religions.
Guillermo W. Méndez (born 1955) is a Guatemalan theologian, educated in Guatemala, Central America, and in North America.
After two decades serving as a Theology Professor in Guatemala, deeply challenged by Liberation Theology, he researched Law, Economics and Politics.
Former member of the Latin American Theological Fraternity and the theological commission of the World Evangelical Fellowship, he developed a concern for the poor and engaged in the transformation of the Civil Law system of his native Guatemala, to undermine the privileges of the ruling political class and reform, through political and legal means, the State of Guatemala.
Professor Méndez has proposed the celebration of a national and international day of Freedom of Conscience, a celebration growing since 2003 in Guatemala, to call attention to the intromission of the legal system in matters of conscience, and to rethink the participation of Christians in political and social change.
Founder of the Institute of Services to the Nation (ISN), a private funded civic organization registered in the Supreme Electoral Tribunal, ISN teaches and organizes population for change from a Judeo Christian perspective.
Professor Méndez team teaches History of Religion in Universidad Francisco Marroquín, Guatemala.
Fue publicado en Guatemala en el 2005 por Editorial Ha Aretz.
Tiene un formato similar al libro de Rick Warren y sus 40 días, pero con un contenido diferente.
En sus 339 páginas presenta un mini estudio para grupos pequeños.
Western philosophy is the philosophical thought and work of the Western world.
Historically, the term refers to the philosophical thinking of Western culture, beginning with Hellenic (i.e.
Greek) philosophy, and eventually covering a large area of the globe.
The word philosophy itself originated from the Hellenic: philosophia (φιλοσοφία), literally, "the love of wisdom" (φιλεῖν philein, "to love" and σοφία sophia, "wisdom").
The scope of philosophy in the ancient understanding, and the writings of (at least some of) the ancient philosophers, were all intellectual endeavors.
This included the problems of philosophy as they are understood today; but it also included many other disciplines, such as pure mathematics and natural sciences such as physics, astrology, and biology (Aristotle, for example, wrote on all of these topics.)
Western philosophers have often been divided into some major branches, or schools, based either on the questions typically addressed by people working in different parts of the field, or notions of ideological undercurrents.
In the ancient world, the most influential division of the subject was the Stoics' division of philosophy into Logic, Ethics, and Physics (conceived as the study of the nature of the world, and including both natural science and metaphysics).
In contemporary philosophy, specialties within the field are more commonly divided into metaphysics, epistemology, ethics and aesthetics (the latter two of which together comprise axiology).
Logic is sometimes included as a main branch of philosophy, sometimes as a separate science philosophers happen to work on, and sometimes just as a characteristically philosophical method applying to all branches of philosophy.
Within these broad branches there are now numerous sub-disciplines of philosophy.
At the broadest level there is the division between Analytic (the English-speaking world and Nordic countries) and Continental Philosophy (in the rest of Europe).
For Continental Philosophy subdividing philosophy between "experts" is problematic for the very nature of the interdisciplinary task of philosophy itself; however, for most of Analytic Philosophy further divisions simplify the task for philosophers in each area.
The interest in particular sub-disciplines waxes and wanes over time; sometimes sub-disciplines become particularly hot topics and can occupy so much space in the literature that they almost seem like major branches in their own right.
(Over the past 40 years or so philosophy of mind—which is, generally speaking, mainly a sub-discipline of metaphysics—has taken on this position within Analytic philosophy, and has attracted so much attention that some suggest philosophy of mind as the paradigm for what contemporary Analytic philosophers do).
Originally the term "philosophy" was applied to all intellectual endeavours.
Aristotle studied what would now be called biology, meteorology, physics, and cosmology, alongside his metaphysics and ethics.
Even in the eighteenth century physics and chemistry were still classified as "natural philosophy", that is, the philosophical study of nature.
Today these latter subjects are popularly referred to as sciences, and as separate from philosophy.
But the distinction is not clear; some philosophers still contend that science retains an unbroken&nbsp;— and unbreakable&nbsp;— link to philosophy.
More recently, psychology, economics, sociology, and linguistics were once the domain of philosophers insofar as they were studied at all, but now have only a weaker connection with the field.
In the late twentieth century cognitive science and artificial intelligence could be seen as being forged in part out of "philosophy of mind."
Philosophy is done primarily through reflection and critical thought.
It does not tend to rely on experiment.
However, in some ways philosophy is close to science in its character and method; some Analytic philosophers have suggested that the method of philosophical analysis allows philosophers to emulate the methods of natural science; Quine holds that philosophy does no more than clarify the arguments and claims of other sciences.
This suggests that philosophy might be the study of meaning and reasoning generally; but some still would claim either that this is not a science, or that if it is it ought not to be pursued by philosophers.
All these views have something in common: whatever philosophy essentially is or is concerned with, it tends on the whole to proceed more "abstractly" than most (or most other) natural sciences.
It does not depend as much on experience and experiment, and does not contribute as directly to technology.
It clearly would be a mistake to identify philosophy with any one natural science; whether it can be identified with science very broadly construed is still an open question.
This is an active discipline pursued by both trained philosophers and scientists.
Philosophers often refer to, and interpret, experimental work of various kinds (as in philosophy of physics and philosophy of psychology).
But this is not surprising: such branches of philosophy aim at philosophical understanding of experimental work.
It is not the philosophers in their capacity as philosophers, who perform the experiments and formulate the scientific theories under study.
Philosophy of science should not be confused with science it studies any more than biology should be confused with plants and animals.
Like philosophy, most religious studies are not experimental.
Parts of theology, including questions about the existence and nature of gods, clearly overlap with philosophy of religion.
Aristotle considered theology a branch of metaphysics, the central field of philosophy, and most philosophers before the twentieth century have devoted significant effort to theological questions.
So the two are not unrelated.
But other parts of religious studies, such as the comparison of different world religions, can be easily distinguished from philosophy in just the way that any other social science can be distinguished from philosophy.
These are closer to history and sociology, and involve specific observations of particular phenomena, here particular religious practices.
The Empiricist tradition in modern philosophy often held that religious questions are beyond the scope of human knowledge, and many have claimed that religious language is literally meaningless: there are not even questions to be answered.
Some philosophers have felt that these difficulties in evidence were irrelevant, and have argued for, against, or just about religious beliefs on moral or other grounds.
The philosophy of mathematics is a branch of philosophy of science; but in many ways mathematics has a special relationship to philosophy.
This is because the study of logic is a central branch of philosophy, and mathematics is a paradigmatic example of logic.
In the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries, logic made great advances, and mathematics has been proven to be reducible to logic (at least, to first-order logic with some set theory).
The use of formal, mathematical logic in philosophy now resembles the use of mathematics in science, although it is not as frequent.
Fragments of Lappish Mythology is the detailed documented account of the Sami religious beliefs and mythology during the mid-19th century.
It was written between 1838–1845 by Swedish minister Lars Levi Laestadius, but was not published until 1997 in Swedish, 2000 in Finnish, and 2002 in English.
The book was originally written for the French funded La Recherche Expedition of 1838–1840, but was lost and soon forgotten for many decades thereafter.
Laestadius describes the state of Sami religious beliefs held during his time, which had already long been passing into history by the Christianization of the Sami during this period.
The condition of these stories are described as "fragments", as Laestadius himself admitted that there were a great deal of the Sami religious beliefs that he knew little about because of Sami secrecy concerning their beliefs.
Laestadius was invited to participate in the La Recherche Expedition (1838–1840) by the French Navy because he was recognized for his knowledge of botany and the Sami languages, both of which the expedition undertook to study.
Laestadius was the field guide for the Norwegian Atlantic islands and in the interior of Northern Norway and Sweden, studying and describing both plant life of the high arctic, and the culture of the Sami people at the time of the expedition.
After the expedition, Læstadius was mentioned extensively within the project; however, his Sami chronicle was quickly forgotten as other issues came to the forefront such as Laestadius's personal and moral struggles and his focus on the new Laestadian movement rather than Sami shamanism.
Laestadius delayed in sending the complete work of the project rather than piecemealing in single parts, and he personally lacked the money to publish the text himself.
The French government also lost interest as there was considerable political instability during the 1840s, ending in the French Revolution of 1848, which finally ended French interest in the whole project and in the Fragments... publication.
The results of the entire expedition, excluding the Fragments... work, became buried in the National archives of France.
Because of the delay in the French government's receipt of Laestadius's manuscript, it was not published in the expedition's final publication work.
The leader of the expedition, Joseph Paul Gaimard, held Læstadius's work in his private collection until his death in 1858.
Thereafter, part 1 of the work was sold to a Xavier Marmier of Pontarlier, France, who upon his death in 1892, willed it to the Pontarlier library.
There it stayed in the Marmier's un-catalogued collection until it was discovered in 1933.
Parts 2–5 of Fragments were sold, as part of Gaimard's estate, to the local antiquarian bookstores, where they ended up in the personal library of French Count Paul Edouard Didier Riantin.
Thereafter, their whereabouts remained unknown until they were discovered in 1946 across the Atlantic Ocean in the manuscript archives of Yale University.
In 1959, parts 2–5 were microfilmed and added to the university's Swedish library.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion; however, the Government restricted this right in practice.
Some government officials committed abuses of citizens' religious freedom.
During the period covered by this report, the overall status of respect for religious freedom did not significantly change.
While respect for non-Protestant groups appeared to improve slightly, respect for Protestant groups appeared to decline in several parts of the country.
In most areas, officials generally respected the constitutionally guaranteed rights of members of most faiths to worship, albeit within strict constraints imposed by the Government.
Authorities in some areas continued to display intolerance for minority religious practice especially by Protestant Christians.
The Lao Front for National Construction (LFNC), a popular front organization for the Lao People's Revolutionary Party (LPRP), was responsible for oversight of religious practice.
The Prime Minister's Decree on Religious Practice (Decree 92) was the principal legal instrument defining rules for religious practice.
Decree 92 also institutionalized the Government's role as the final arbiter of permissible religious activities.
Although this decree has contributed to greater religious tolerance since it was promulgated in 2002, authorities have increasingly used its many conditions to restrict some aspects of religious practice.
During the period covered by this report, some local officials pressured minority Protestants to renounce their faith on threat of arrest or forceful eviction from their villages.
Such cases occurred in Bolikhamsai, Houaphan, and Luang Namtha provinces.
Arrests and detention of Protestants occurred in Luang Namtha, Oudomsai, Salavan, Savannakhet, and Vientiane provinces.
Two Buddhist monks were arrested in Bolikhamsai Province for having been ordained without government authorization.
In some areas, minority Protestants were forbidden from gathering to worship.
In areas where Protestants were actively proselytizing, local officials have sometimes subjected them to “reeducation.” A Christian man in Salavan Province was arrested on April 1, 2006 for refusing to renounce his faith and placed under house arrest until his release in late July 2006.
At the end of the period covered by this report, there were four known religious prisoners, as well as at least seven other Protestants who were apparently being detained without charges for other than religious reasons, but in whose cases religion was suspected to have played a role.
Conflicts between ethnic groups and movement among villages sometimes exacerbated religious tensions.
The efforts of some Protestant congregations to establish churches independent of the Lao Evangelical Church (LEC) continued to cause strains within the Protestant community.
The country has an area of and a population of 6.4 million.
Almost all ethnic or "lowland" Lao are followers of Theravada Buddhism; however, lowland Lao constitute only 40-50 percent of the population.
The remainder of the population belongs to at least 48 distinct ethnic minority groups.
Most of these ethnic minorities are practitioners of animism, with beliefs that vary greatly among groups.
Animism is predominant among most Sino-Thai groups, such as the Thai Dam and Thai Daeng, as well as among Mon-Khmer and Burmo-Tibetan groups.
Even among lowland Lao, many pre-Buddhist animistic religious beliefs have been incorporated into Theravada Buddhist practice.
Catholics and Protestants constitute approximately 2 percent of the population.
Other minority religious groups include those practicing the Baha'i faith, Islam, Mahayana Buddhism, and Confucianism.
A very small number of citizens follow no religion.
The Constitution, promulgated in 1991, provides for freedom of religion; however, local authorities in particular sometimes violated this right.
Article 30 of the Constitution provides for freedom of religion, a fact frequently cited by officials in reference to religious tolerance.
Article 9 of the Constitution, however, discourages all acts that create divisions among religious groups and persons.
The Government has interpreted this clause restrictively, and both local and central government officials widely refer to Article 9 as a reason for placing constraints on religious practice, especially proselytizing and the expansion of Protestantism among minority groups.
Although official pronouncements acknowledge the existence of different religious groups, they emphasize religion's potential to divide, distract, or destabilize.
A person arrested or convicted for religious offenses, as with most other alleged civil liberties violations, had little protection under the law.
Detained persons may be held for lengthy periods without trial.
Court judges, not juries, decided guilt or innocence in court cases, and the defense rights of the accused were limited.
All religious groups, including Buddhists, practice their faith in an atmosphere in which application of the law is arbitrary.
Certain actions interpreted by officials as threatening brought harsh punishment.
Religious practice was "free" only if practitioners stayed within tacitly understood guidelines of activity acceptable to the Government.
The Government typically refused to acknowledge any wrongdoing on the part of its officials, even in egregious cases of religious persecution.
Blame was usually attributed to the victims rather than the persecuting officials.
In some past cases, officials concocted patently unbelievable explanations for events in order to exonerate local officials.
While the Government has sometimes admitted that local officials are often part of the problem, it has been unwilling to take action against officials who have violated laws and regulations on religious freedom.
In its 20 articles, Decree 92 establishes guidelines for religious activities in a broad range of areas.
While the decree provides that the Government "respects and protects legitimate activities of believers," it also seeks to ensure that religious practice "conforms to the laws and regulations."
Decree 92 reserves for the LFNC the "right and duty to manage and promote" religious practice, requiring that nearly all aspects of religious practice receive the approval of the LFNC office having responsibility for the village, district, and province where the activity occurs and, in some cases, requiring approval from the central level LFNC.
Decree 92 legitimizes proselytizing by Lao citizens, printing religious materials, owning and building houses of worship, and maintaining contact with overseas religious groups–all contingent upon a strict approval process.
In practice, the Government used the approval process to restrict the religious activities of certain groups and has effectively prevented some religious denominations from importing and printing religious materials as well as constructing houses of worship.
The Government required several religious groups, apparently with the exception of Buddhists and Catholics, to report membership information periodically to the Religious Affairs Department of the LFNC.
The Government also restricted the publication of religious materials that applied to most religious groups, again excepting Buddhists.
Both the Constitution and Decree 92 assert that religious practice should serve national interests by promoting development and education and instructing believers to be good citizens.
The Government presumed both a right and a duty to oversee religious practice at all levels to ensure religious practice fills these roles in society.
In effect this has led the Government to intervene in the activities of minority religious groups, particularly Protestants, on the grounds that their practices did not promote national interests or demonstrated disloyalty to the Government.
Although the state is secular in name and practice, members of governmental institutions are by-and-large followers of Theravada Buddhism, the religion of the majority of the ethnic Lao population.
The Government's exemption of Buddhism from many of the Decree 92 restrictions imposed on other organized religions and its promotion of Buddhism as an element of the country's cultural and spiritual identity gave Theravada Buddhism the status of an unofficial national religion.
Many persons regarded Buddhism as both an integral part of the national culture and a way of life.
The increasing incorporation of Buddhist ritual and ceremony in state functions reflected the elevated status of Buddhism in society.
In some areas where animism predominated among ethnic minority groups, local authorities have actively encouraged those groups to adopt Buddhism and abandon their "backward" beliefs in magic and spirits.
The Government discouraged animist practices that it regarded as outdated, unhealthy, or illegal, such as the practice in some tribes of killing children born with defects or of burying the bodies of deceased relatives under peoples’ homes.
Although the Government did not maintain diplomatic relations with the Holy See, representatives of the Papal Nuncio visited from Thailand and coordinated with the Government on assistance programs, especially for lepers and persons with disabilities.
Since 2001 the Government has more closely scrutinized the activities of Laos’ small Muslim population but has not interfered with the community's religious activities.
Muslims in the small Islamic community were able to practice their faith openly and attend the two active mosques.
Daily prayers and the weekly Jumaat prayer on Fridays proceeded unobstructed, and all Islamic celebrations were allowed.
Muslims were permitted to go on the Hajj.
Groups that conduct Tabligh teachings for the faithful came from Thailand once or twice per year.
In 2006, a local Muslim joined with members of other religious groups to represent the Government at an Interfaith Conference on Religion in Jakarta, Indonesia.
The Government observes two religious holidays, the That Luang Festival (the end of Buddhist Lent) and the Buddhist New Year.
It recognized the popularity and cultural significance of Buddhist festivals, and most senior officials openly attended them.
The Government generally allowed major religious festivals of all established congregations without hindrance.
Authorities require new denominations to join other religious groups with similar historical antecedents despite clear differences between the groups' beliefs.
In March 2004 the LFNC's Order Number 1 required all Protestant groups to become a part of the LEC or the Seventh-day Adventist Church.
The order stated that no other denominations would be permitted to register, a measure to prevent "disharmony" in the religious community.
Although the Prime Minister's Decree on Religious Practice establishes procedures for new denominations to register, the Government's desire to consolidate religious practice for purposes of control has effectively blocked new registrations.
In theory, denominations not registered with the LFNC were not allowed to practice their faith.
There was no religious instruction in public schools nor were there any parochial or religiously-affiliated schools operating in the country.
However, several private pre-schools and English language schools received support from religious groups abroad.
In practice many boys spent some time in Buddhist temples, where they received instruction in religion as well as in academics.
Temples traditionally have filled the role of schools and continued to play this role in smaller communities where formal education was limited or unavailable.
Christian denominations, particularly the LEC, Seventh-day Adventists, and the Catholic Church, operated Sunday schools for children and young persons.
Baha'i Spiritual Assemblies conducted religious training for children as well as for adult members.
The Government requires and routinely granted permission for formal links with co-religionists in other countries.
In practice the line between formal and informal links was blurred, and relations generally were established without much difficulty.
The Government's tolerance of religion varied by region and by religion.
Throughout the country, however, religious practice was restrained by official rules and policies that only allowed religious groups to practice their faith under circumscribed conditions.
LEC members and other Protestant groups that have wanted to be recognized as separate from the LEC continued to be the targets of most restrictions.
The Buddhist Supreme Patriarch, or Sangkarat, maintained close links to the Government.
Government officials commonly invited Buddhist monks to bless newly opened Government buildings and offices.
As a result of the Government's decentralization policy that diffused power to provinces and districts, central government control over the behavior of provincial, district, and local officials was weakened.
Local officials were often unaware of government policies on topics such as religious tolerance due to the incomplete dissemination and application of existing laws and regulations and, when aware of the laws, often failed to enforce the laws.
The LFNC at times visited areas where religious persecution had taken place in order to instruct local officials on government policy and regulation.
More often, however, the LFNC's Religious Affairs Department encouraged local or provincial governments to resolve conflicts on their own and in accordance with Decree 92.
In some areas unauthorized churches have generally been allowed to conduct services without hindrance by local authorities.
Within the LEC, some congregations have sought greater independence and have forged their own connections with Protestant groups abroad.
Authorities in several provinces insisted that independent church congregations return to the LEC, but in other areas authorities allowed independent churches to conduct services without hindrance.
Methodists have consistently sought to register with the LFNC since the beginning of this decade as a separate denomination.
In early 2006, Methodists again requested to register with the Government as a religious group separate and apart from the LEC but received no official response.
In early 2006 some village and district officials appeared to be taking a stronger stance against unauthorized Methodist congregations; however, this reportedly tapered off in late 2006.
Between 1999 and 2001 local authorities closed approximately 20 of Vientiane Province's 60 LEC churches.
Beginning in 2002, most of these churches were allowed to reopen.
However, despite requests, officials in several districts of Savannakhet Province did not allow local congregations to reopen as many as 6 of Savannakhet's approximately 40 churches, and they remained closed at the end of the reporting period.
Despite recent requests that a church building in Dong Nong Khun Village, which was confiscated by local officials in 2000, be returned to its congregation, provincial officials stated in early 2007 that the number of Protestants in the village was not sufficient to warrant having a church even though local Protestants claimed more than 100 worshippers in the village.
As many as 200 of the LEC's nearly 400 congregations do not have permanent church structures and conduct worship services in members' homes.
Since the 2002 promulgation of Decree 92, officials from the LFNC's Religious Affairs Department have stated that home churches should be replaced with designated church structures whenever possible.
At the same time, village and district LFNC offices often refused permission to construct new churches, and home churches remained the only viable place of worship for many LEC congregations.
The LEC continued to encounter difficulties registering new congregations and receiving permission to establish new places of worship or repair existing facilities, particularly in Luang Prabang City, Attapeu, Luang Namtha, and Savannakhet provinces.
No new LEC churches were permitted during the reporting period.
Baha'i spiritual assemblies in Vientiane and Savannakhet cities practiced freely, but smaller communities in Khammouane and Savannakhet provinces periodically faced restrictions by local authorities, such as limitations on both the nature and extent of some religious activities.
Lao authorities remained suspicious of major supporters, both foreign and domestic, of religious communities other than Buddhism, especially Protestant groups, in part because these faiths do not share the high degree of direction and incorporation into the government structure that Theravada Buddhism does.
Some authorities criticized Christianity as an American or imperialist "import" into the country.
In the past decade, the LEC suffered the brunt of local-level efforts to close churches, arrest church leaders, and force members to renounce their faith.
The LEC's rapid growth during the last decade, its contacts with religious groups abroad, the active proselytizing by some of its members, and its relative independence of government control contributed to the Government's suspicion of the church's activities.
Some authorities also interpreted Christian teachings of obedience to God as signifying disloyalty to the Government and ruling party.
There was also strong evidence that the Communist Party leadership viewed Christianity as a tool of western countries to undermine the Communist political system.
While LEC leadership was primarily Lao, the LEC membership was mostly ethnic Mon-Khmer tribes and the Hmong, two groups that historically have resisted central Government control, which contributed to the Government's distrust of the LEC.
During the reporting period there were no reports of official interference with or denial of permission to hold religious celebrations in churches, but there were reports that Protestants in some villages were not allowed to hold Christian celebrations in their homes, thus restricting Protestant activities to church buildings only.
This was particularly a problem for Protestants who had not been given approval to build church structures in their villages.
For example, Protestants in Nakun Village, Bolikhamsai Province, and Xunya Village, Luang Namtha Province, have reportedly been restricted in their ability to hold religious meetings and celebrations in their homes.
Protestants in both villages also have not been given approval to build church structures.
Longstanding restrictions on the Catholic Church's operations in the north resulted in the continued existence of only a handful of small congregations in Sayaboury, Bokeo, Luang Namtha, and Vientiane provinces; however, there were signs during the reporting period that the Government was slowly easing its control over the Catholic community in the north.
The Government permitted more frequent visits by the Bishop of Luang Prabang to the north to conduct services for the scattered Catholic community there, but it continued to restrict his travel and prevent his residence in Luang Prabang.
There were no ordained Catholic priests operating in the north.
Several church properties, including a school in Vientiane Municipality, were seized by the Government after 1975 and have not been returned, nor has the Government provided restitution.
The Government prohibited foreigners from proselytizing, although it permitted foreign NGOs with religious affiliations to work in the country.
Authorities sometimes seized religious tracts and teaching materials from local Protestants entering the country from abroad and arrested and expelled foreigners attempting to proselytize.
In early 2006 two South Koreans were reportedly arrested for proselytizing in Bokeo Province and were expelled.
Although Decree 92 authorized the printing of non-Buddhist religious texts and allowed religious materials to be imported from abroad, it also required permission for such activities from the LFNC.
The LFNC did not authorize Christian or Baha'i denominations to print their own religious materials, although both groups have sought permission to do so for several years.
Because of these restrictions, some approved Protestant congregations complained of difficulties in obtaining Bibles and other religious materials.
The Government has not allowed the Seventh-day Adventists to import Bibles or other religious materials, but the Government did allow the LEC to import a small number of Bibles in early 2007.
During the reporting period, Bibles were confiscated at the Lao-Thai Friendship Bridge from those attempting to import materials for existing congregations.
However, there were no reports of arrests associated with these confiscations, as had occurred in past years.
Several non-Christian groups indicated that they have not been restricted in bringing religious materials into the country.
The Government generally did not interfere with citizens wishing to travel abroad for short-term religious training.
In past years, the Government required that Lao citizens exiting the country receive an exit stamp.
This requirement was eliminated in early 2007.
Even before the exit stamp requirement was eliminated, many persons of all faiths traveled abroad informally for religious training without obtaining advance permission and without informing authorities of the purpose of their travel.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs usually granted exit visas, but on occasion it refused travel permission to persons going abroad for what it regarded as suspect activities.
Identity cards did not specify religion, nor did family "household registers" or passports, two other important forms of identification.
On occasion authorities withheld new ID cards or household registers from Protestants because of their religious beliefs or threatened to withhold official documentation unless they renounced their faith.
In 2006 district officials in Houaphan Province reportedly accepted several passport applications from Protestants within their district but subsequently refused to send the applications to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for processing.
Authorities continued to arrest and detain persons for their religious activities.
Detentions that occurred during the reporting period tended to be longer than in 2005-2006.
At the end of the period covered by this report, there were four religious prisoners: three in Vientiane Province and one in Oudomsai Province.
There was also one abduction of a man in Luang Namtha Province in January 2007 in which religion may have played a role.
Additionally, six ethnic Hmong, five males and one adult female, who had been detained in 2005 as part of a group of 27, apparently remained in detention at the end of the reporting period.
While religion was not considered the primary reason for their detentions, it was considered to be one factor involved.
Conditions in prisons were reportedly harsh; like other prisoners, religious detainees suffered from inadequate food rations, lack of medical care, and cramped quarters.
From late 2006 through the end of the reporting period, Protestants in Xunya Village of Luang Namtha Province have reportedly been restricted in their right to worship by local officials.
Following the death of a local member of the Protestant community in March 2007, local officials reportedly refused the community permission to hold a Christian funeral service.
In May 2007 the LFNC reportedly gave permission for Christian weddings and funerals to take place in the village, but Protestants are reportedly not allowed to gather for worship services.
In January 2007 several Christian families in Long District of Luang Namtha Province and Xiang Kho District of Houaphan Province were reportedly asked to renounce their Christian beliefs by local and district-level officials or leave their villages.
In March 2007 Protestants in Nakun Village of Bolikhamsai Province were reportedly reeducated and asked to sign statements indicating that they had engaged in proselytizing.
The Protestants were reported as saying that they had been pressured by local officials in regard to their Christian beliefs and had been reeducated several times.
Also in March, several Protestant families in Nam Deua Village of Bolikhamsai Province were reportedly told to give up their religious beliefs and threatened with expulsion from their village.
In May 2007 7 of the ten Christian families in Nakun Village were reportedly forced to resettle to another village after refusing to renounce their Protestant beliefs.
In January 2007 Mr. Khamsone Baccam, an ethnic Thai Dam man described as a Protestant leader, was arrested in Oudomsai Province.
The Government has been unwilling to acknowledge that he is being held, and multiple requests for information about his status were not answered.
Also in January 2007, Mr. Somphone Khantisouk was abducted from a roadside in Luang Namtha Province, reportedly by local police.
While the exact reason for Somphone’s abduction is unclear, religion is not considered to be the primary cause.
However, some in the religious community have indicated that his perceived religious affiliation may have been one factor involved in his abduction.
Bolikhamsai Province officials indicated in February 2007 that two Buddhist monks had been arrested for being ordained without Government approval and for celebrating inappropriately following the ordination ceremony.
The two were reportedly only detained a short time before being released.
In December 2006 five ethnic Yao Protestants were arrested in Luang Namtha Province for constructing a church building without appropriate authorization.
The five men were released on January 20, 2007, reportedly after complying with a local official’s request that they sign a document renouncing their faith.
Since their release, the men have reportedly been closely watched by local officials and have not been allowed to gather for worship services.
In late 2006 several villagers in Luang Namtha Province were reportedly called into a local police station and questioned following a children’s performance in the village.
Reportedly, local officials incorrectly thought that the performance may have had some relationship to a “foreign religion.” In November 2006 two ethnic Khmu U.S. Legal Permanent Residents who were visiting Khon Khen Village in Vientiane Province were detained after participating in and videotaping a Protestant celebration in the village.
The two, a pastor and his wife, were released after three-weeks' detention and payment of a $9,000 fine.
Thirteen ethnic Khmu Protestants in Khon Khen Village were also arrested in November 2006.
According to government officials, 1 of the 13 was quickly released after it was discovered that he was a local official.
Nine of the 12 other Khmu Protestants were released from a police detention facility on May 16.
Three pastors, considered the leaders of the group, remained in prison at the end of the reporting period.
The Government has not indicated if there are any charges against the three that remain incarcerated.
In August 2006 two LEC members in Saveth Village, Savannakhet Province, were arrested, reportedly for being outspoken about their faith.
The two men were held without charges for several months.
Eventually, they were charged with “causing division in society” and sentenced to six months in prison.
The two were released on February 9, 2007.
From June through July 2006, a Protestant man in Nam Heng Village of Oudomsai Province was reportedly jailed for possessing ammunition at his residence.
According to the LEC, the man had completed his service in the military and did have a small amount of ammunition at his residence, not unusual in remote villages where people engage in hunting.
The Protestant community, however, regarded the ammunition as an excuse for his arrest, believing the real reason was local officials’ opposition to his Christianity.
The man was released in July following payment of a $200 fine.
In April 2006 district officials in Salavan Province arrested an LEC member, Mr. Adern, who refused the village chief's order to recant his faith.
He was reportedly from one of four Protestant families that had lived in the village, two of which had reportedly been forced to leave by the time of his arrest.
During the first 10 days of house arrest he was reportedly bound with wrist and ankle shackles but was then unshackled and allowed to move freely in his home.
Mr. Adern was released from house arrest in July 2006.
In 2005 authorities in Bolikhamsai Province detained a group of 27 ethnic Hmong.
The group—all but one minors at the time they were initially detained—were residents at the Petchabun displaced-persons' settlement in northern Thailand, and were irregularly deported back to Laos by Thai authorities who considered them illegal immigrants.
Some sources indicated that the group members were Christians and may have been detained in Laos in part due to their religious affiliation.
Six of the 27 Hmong were apparently still in detention or otherwise unaccounted for at the end of the reporting period.
Complicating this case, the Government had refused to acknowledge it was holding the group of 27 for 15 months and, only in March 2007, did it claim it had “found” the 21 girls from the group.
The Government released the girls into the custody of extended family members but did not allow the presence of international observers at the release ceremony.
Many of the girls have reportedly returned to Thailand.
The Government still has not accounted for the five males and one adult female.
In late 2005 an unapproved LEC Church in Houaysay Noi Village, Bokeo Province, was destroyed by local officials, and six church leaders were arrested.
One of the six died while in jail, and the other five were released in early 2006.
In 1999, authorities arrested two members of the Lao Evangelical Church in Oudomsai Province, Mr. Nyoht and Mr. Thongchanh, and charged them with treason and sedition, although their arrests appeared to have been for proselytizing.
Nyoht was sentenced to 12 years in prison and Thongchanh to 15 years.
In October 2006 Nyoht died while in prison.
Thongchanh remained in prison at the end of this reporting period despite appeals that his case be reviewed.
Efforts by local officials to force Protestants to renounce their faith continued in some areas.
In some cases, officials threatened religious minorities with arrest or expulsion from their villages if they did not comply.
In January 2007 officials in Long District of Luang Namtha Province and Xiang Kho District of Houaphan Province reportedly threatened several Protestant families with expulsion if they did not renounce their beliefs.
In March 2007 officials in Nam Deua District of Bolikhamsai Province also reportedly pressured some Protestants to renounce their beliefs.
Lands belonging to several Protestant families in Nam Heng Village of Oudomsai Province were reportedly confiscated by the village chief and redistributed to other villagers in early 2006.
Some other Protestants who had previously resettled to the village were said to have returned to their home province of Phongsaly after being pressured by the village chief.
According to Lao officials and the LEC, the land confiscation issue was resolved in mid-2006.
Local Protestants in the village indicated in early 2007 that, while opposition to Christianity may have complicated the issue, most of those whose lands were confiscated had moved to Nam Heng Village without Government authorization.
In February 2005 authorities expelled Protestant villagers from Ban Kok Pho Village of Bolikhamsai Province after they refused to renounce their faith.
In early 2005 authorities in Muang Phin District of Savannakhet Province detained 24 ethnic Brou Protestants associated with the LEC at the district police office for several days in order to force their renunciation of faith.
All but two of the men recanted their faith.
These two men were imprisoned for approximately 1 year but were reportedly released in early 2006.
Local officials in some areas attempted to force Protestants to renounce their faith; however, there were no reports of explicit forced conversion to another faith during the reporting period.
In cases where renunciations occurred, villagers were told by local officials that they would be expelled from their villages if they did not sign documents renouncing their faith.
In at least one case, villagers in Nakun Village of Bolikhamsai Province who chose not to renounce their beliefs were reported to have been relocated by local officials.
According to Protestants following the incident, village officials had suggested that Protestant villagers convert to Buddhism or to their previously held animist beliefs.
The same officials reportedly told villagers that Protestantism is not good because it is an American religion.
There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.
The Government's record of respect for religious freedom, particularly in regard to Protestant minorities, continued to be marred by problems at the local level, with incidents of persecution occurring in many provinces.
However, some positive steps were taken during the reporting period to address specific religious freedom concerns.
In its official pronouncements in recent years, the Government called for conciliation and equality among religious faiths.
The LFNC continued to instruct local officials on religious tolerance.
Officials from the LFNC traveled with representatives of the LEC to several provinces to promote better understanding between LEC congregations and local officials.
The LEC continued to conduct an active program of public service during this reporting period, providing developmental assistance and organizing social welfare projects in several areas that had previously experienced religious intolerance.
In conjunction with the LFNC, the LEC continued to conduct meetings with officials and Protestants in some villages where there had been religious tensions.
On May 6, 2007 the LEC opened a Sports and Vocational Training Center in Vientiane Municipality on a piece of property that had been confiscated by the Government several years earlier.
The land was returned to the LEC contingent on the Center being made available for use by Lao athletes to prepare for the 2009 South East Asian Games.
In early 2007 church members in Houaysay Noi Village, Bokeo Province, were given approval to meet in a house church.
The village had previously experienced problems, when in late 2005, an unapproved LEC Church in Houaysay Noi Village was destroyed by local officials, and six church leaders were arrested.
One of the six died while in jail, and the other five were released in early 2006.
In the past, local officials in some areas obstructed Christian congregations' observance of religious holidays such as Christmas.
Church officials indicated that Christmas activities at recognized religious venues in 2006 were less restricted than in 2005, particularly in Vientiane Municipality.
Churches that had previously been closed were allowed to reopen in some provinces in 2006.
The Government permitted the reopening of four LEC churches in Bolikhamsai Province that were officially closed in past years, including a church in Khamsan Village that had been closed since 2003.
Officials in Muang Feuang District of Vientiane Province granted permission for LEC members to reconstruct a destroyed church in Phone Ngam Village in late 2005, and the church has since reopened.
During the reporting period, there were no reported LEC church closures.
In contrast to the past policy of denying all such requests, several provinces also permitted some Christian congregations to expand or renovate long-standing churches.
In 2006 Catholics were permitted to construct two rural churches in Vientiane Province.
Catholic communities had existed in both villages for more than 10 years.
In June 2006 authorities permitted the Catholic Church to conduct an ordination in Vientiane Municipality along with the ordination of a deacon in Champassak Province.
This marked the first Catholic ordinations in the country since 1975.
The ordination in Vientiane Municipality was initially scheduled to take place in late 2005 in Bolikhamsai Province; however, the Government blocked it.
In December 2006 the Government allowed the ordination of three additional Catholic priests in Vientiane Municipality.
Approval for the ordinations represented improvements over past restrictions.
The small Seventh-day Adventist Church, confined to a handful of congregations in Vientiane Municipality and Bolikhamsai, Bokeo, Champassak, Luang Prabang, and Xiengkhoug provinces, reported no significant Government interference in its activities in recent years, and its members appeared to be free to practice their faith.
In late 2006 the Baha’is were able, with assistance from the Lao Front for National Construction, to reclaim two pieces of property in Vientiane and Khammouane provinces that had been seized by the Government in 1975.
In 2006 the Government officially approved land for the establishment of four new Baha'i centers, two in Vientiane Municipality, one in Vientiane Province, and one in Savannakhet Province.
While the land approval has been granted, the Baha’i have not yet received all required paperwork from the District Land Offices and have not yet requested approval to begin construction of the new centers.
Additionally, in June 2006 the Government gave official approval for Baha'is to use land where they already have a cemetery.
Baha'i local spiritual assemblies and the National Spiritual Assembly routinely held Baha'i 19-day feasts and celebrated all holy days.
The Baha’i National Spiritual Assembly in Vientiane met regularly and has sent delegations to the Universal House of Justice in Mount Carmel, in Haifa, Israel.
Visitors from sister congregations in Malaysia have visited the Baha’i Center in Vientiane.
For the most part, the various religious communities coexist amicably.
Society places importance on harmonious relations, and the dominant Buddhist faith generally is tolerant of other religious practices.
There has been no ecumenical movement to date.
Local cultural mores generally instilled respect for longstanding, well-known differences in belief.
However, interreligious tensions arose on rare occasions within some minority ethnic groups, particularly in response to proselytizing or disagreements over rights to village resources.
Efforts of some congregations to establish churches independent of the LEC or associated with denominations based abroad led to some tensions within the Protestant community.
Frictions also have arisen over the refusal of some members of minority religious groups, particularly Protestants, to participate in Buddhist or animist religious ceremonies.
In December 2005 an LEC pastor, Mr. Aroun Varaphong, was killed in Bolikhamsai Province after preaching at a pre-Christmas service.
There is no evidence that a serious investigation into his killing was ever conducted.
Torgny Karl Segerstedt (1 November 1876 – 31 March 1945) was a Swedish scholar of comparative religion, later publicist and editor-in-chief of the newspaper Göteborgs Handels- och Sjöfartstidning from 1917 to 1945.
As such he is remembered for his uncompromising anti-Nazi stance.
Torgny Segerstedt was born in Karlstad in Värmland County, the son of the teacher and publicist Albrekt Segerstedt (1844–1894) and Fredrika Sofia Bohman.
He earned a candidate of theology-degree from Lund University in 1901 and in 1903 he became a lecturer in the history of religion.
He was a lecturer in theological encyclopedics at Lund University from 1904 to 1912 and a professor in the history of religions at Stockholm University from 1913 to 1917.
He is referenced in the following quote, "In this sense our experiment can also be interpreted as another confirmation of the nonobjectifiability of quantum mechanics or, as stated by Torny Segerstedt, 'Reality is theory.'"
Torgny Segerstedt married his Norwegian wife Augusta Wilhelmina Synnestvedt in 1905.
Their children are the philosopher and sociologist Torgny (T:son) Segerstedt (1908–1999), and the journalist and politician Ingrid Segerstedt Wiberg (1911–2010).
Torgny Segerstedt is the subject of the 2012 Swedish film, The Last Sentence, directed by Jan Troell.
Erwin Ramsdell Goodenough (1893–1965) was a scholar in the history of religion.
He is specifically noted for his study of the influence of Greek culture on Judaism, what some call Hellenistic Judaism.
Born in Brooklyn, he studied at Hamilton College, Drew Theological Seminary, and then received a bachelor's degree in theology from Garrett Biblical Institute in 1917.
He went on to Harvard University for three years, then three more years at Oxford University, where he received the D.Phil.
He then began teaching at Yale University in 1923, where he taught until he retired in 1962.
He went on Brandeis University, then was given an office in the Widener Library at Harvard.
He received honorary degrees from Yale, Hebrew Union College, and the University of Uppsala.
He edited the Journal of Biblical Literature from 1934-1942.
His papers are archived at Yale.
After his death, he was honored by a volume of studies in his honor, Religions in Antiquity: Essays in Memory of Erwin Ramsdell Goodenough, edited by Jacob Neusner, published by E.J.
Brill in 1968 (reprinted by Wipf and Stock in 2004).
Titram is a village stuated in Kaithal District of north Indian state of Haryana.
This village is situated at an important junction of National Highway 65 & State Highway 11-A.
This point is known as Titram Crossing.
It is believed that ancient Indian religious texts Taittiriya Samhita and Taittiriya Upanishad were written around this very place.
Hans Daubmann (born in Torgau, died in 1573 in Königsberg) was a German printer, active in Nuremberg and then Königsberg, Ducal Prussia (at the time a fief of Kingdom of Poland).
He moved to Königsberg in 1554, where he was the official printer of Duke Albert.
Daubmann was responsible for printing Lutheran religious texts, as well as the Duke's edicts.
Controversial literature is a subdivision of the Library of Congress Subject Headings, used in the description of religious books.
In this context, it has the following narrow use: "under names of individual religious and monastic orders, individual religions, individual Christian denominations, and uniform titles of sacred works for works that argue against or express opposition to those groups or works".
Prior to 1998 the subdivision was permitted for 'general religious and philosophical topics'.
Stephen D. Glazier (born Mystic, Connecticut) is an American anthropologist.
He has conducted extensive fieldwork in Trinidad focusing on Caribbean religions such as Rastafari, Orisa/Sango, and the Spiritual Baptists.
He also publishes on Caribbean archaeology and ethnohistory.
While a visiting scholar at Yale University, he cataloged Irving Rouse's St. Joseph (Trinidad) and Mayo (Trinidad) collections for the Peabody Museum.
Glazier is a member of the Graduate Faculty in Anthropology at the University of Nebraska and offers classes in general (four-field) anthropology, race and minority relations, and the anthropology of belief systems.
He began his graduate studies in anthropology at Princeton University under Martin G. Silverman, Hildred Geertz, Alfonso Ortiz, and Vincent Crapanzano.
Glazier also earned an M.Div.
thesis—based on experiences as an Assistant Chaplain at New Jersey Neuro Psychiatric Institute—dealt with patterns of schizophrenic speech.
He was awarded a Ph.
D. in Anthropology from the University of Connecticut  in 1981.
His dissertation advisors were Seth Leacock, Dennison J. Nash, and Ronald M. Wintrob.
Glazier served as book review editor of the journal Anthropology of Consciousness.
He was elected for two terms as President of the Society for the Anthropology of Consciousness.
In addition, he served as Vice-President and Secretary of the Society for the Anthropology of Religion and as a Council Member and as Secretary of the Society for the Scientific Study of Religion.
"Pilgrimages in the Caribbean: A Comparison of Cases from Haiti and Trinidad’.
In Religion, Pilgrimage, and Tourism, edited by Alex Norman, Carole M. Cusack.
New York and London: Routledge Noel Titus and Stephen D. Glazier.
"Grenada" Worldmark Encyclopedia of Religious Practices.
"Sango Healers and Healing in the Caribbean."
Chapter 7 in Caribbean Healing Traditions: Implications for Health and Mental Health.
Roy Moodley, and Barry Chavannes editors.
New York and London: Routledge.
"Rastafarianism" in Encyclopedia of Race and Racism.
New York: Macmillan Reference, pp.& "Religious Developments in the Caribbean Between 1865 and 1945" in The Cambridge History of Religions in America.
II: Religions in America, 1790-1945.
New York and London: Cambridge University Press, pp.& "Anthropology and Religious Belief" in The Anthropology of Religion: Critical Concepts in Religious Studies.
Phillips Stevens Jr, and Denice J. Szafran, editors.
New York and London: Routledge, volume I, pp.& 613–614), and "Martinique" (II, pp.& 749–750, with C. M. Dietrich) in Encyclopedia of Global Religion.
Mark Jurgensmeyer and Wade Clark Roof, editors.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Reference.
The laying on of hands is a religious ritual that accompanies certain religious practices, which are found throughout the world in varying forms.
In Christian churches, this practice is used as both a symbolic and formal method of invoking the Holy Spirit primarily during baptisms and confirmations, healing services, blessings, and ordination of priests, ministers, elders, deacons, and other church officers, along with a variety of other church sacraments and holy ceremonies.
The laying on of hands was an action referred to on numerous occasions in the Tanakh to accompany the conferring of a blessing or authority.
For example, Isaac blessed his son Jacob by laying on of hands ( ).
Moses ordained Joshua through semikhah - i.e.
by the laying on of hands: , .
The Bible adds that Joshua was thereby "filled with the spirit of wisdom".
Moses also ordained the 70 elders ( ).
The elders later ordained their successors in this way.
Their successors in turn ordained others.
This chain of hands-on semikhah continued through the time of the Second Temple, to an undetermined time.
The exact date that the original semikhah succession ended is not certain.
Many medieval authorities believed that this occurred during the reign of Hillel II, around the year 360 CE.
However, it seems to have continued at least until 425 A.D. when Theodosius II executed Gamaliel VI and suppressed the Patriarchate and Sanhedrin.
Aaron and the High Priests who succeeded him symbolically transferred the sins of the Children of Israel to a sacrificial goat by the laying on of hands: Leviticus .
In the New Testament the laying on of hands was associated with the receiving of the Holy Spirit (See Acts ).
Initially the Apostles laid hands on new believers as well as believers.
In the early church, the practice continued and is still used in a wide variety of church ceremonies, such as during confirmation.
The New Testament also associates the laying on of hands with the conferral of authority or designation of a person to a position of responsibility.
(See Acts , Acts ; and .
Also possibly Acts , where "ordained"--Greek: χειροτονήσαντες--may be translated "extended the hand.")
The use of the laying on of hands for the ordination of church officers has continued in many branches of Christianity.
The laying on of hands, known as the royal touch, was performed by kings in England and France, and was believed to cure scrofula (also called "King's Evil" at the time), a name given to a number of skin diseases.
The rite of the king's touch began in France with Robert II the Pious, but legend later attributed the practice to Clovis as Merovingian founder of the Holy Roman kingdom, and Edward the Confessor in England.
The belief continued to be common throughout the Middle Ages but began to die out with the Enlightenment.
Queen Anne was the last British monarch to claim to possess this divine ability, though the Jacobite pretenders also claimed to do so.
The French monarchy maintained the practice up until the 19th century.
The act was usually performed at large ceremonies, often at Easter or other holy days.
It has been touted as a cure for life-threatening conditions including brain damage, venereal diseases, diabetes and cancer, and there have been sharp criticisms from the scientific and medical communities towards the practice (as is the case with virtually every form of faith healing).
One is that it has led to many casualties that might have been avoided or delayed with scientifically proven methods.
Another is that the "energy field" created by the "vital energy" sent by the practitioners (i.e.
the Japanese ki, the Chinese chi, the Indian prana, or a form of animal magnetism) cannot be detected by any scientific instruments, placing it in the realm of religious belief.
Upon failure of the treatment, practitioners tend to use excuses such as that the patient was a non-believer, didn’t have enough belief or faith in the practice or practitioner, including other explanations that shield the practitioner at the cost of the patient.
Claimed cures with the imposition of hands are often dismissed by the scientific community either as a placebo effect or as a spontaneous remission.
For a broader view on the criticisms that apply to the practice, see also:<br>
The Neal A. Maxwell Institute for Religious Scholarship, or simply the Maxwell Institute, was created by Brigham Young University (BYU) in 2006 as the umbrella organization for several of the University's academic initiatives, including: the Middle Eastern Texts Initiative (METI), the Center for the Preservation of Ancient Religious Texts (CPART), the Laura F. Willes Center for Book of Mormon Studies, and the Foundation for Ancient Research and Mormon Studies (FARMS).
By 2013, FARMS had become fully absorbed into the Institute's Willes Center.
The Maxwell Institute's mission statement reads: “Our mission is to deepen understanding and nurture discipleship among Latter-day Saints and to promote mutual respect and goodwill among people of all faiths through the scholarly study of religious texts and traditions.” According to its website, The Neal A. Maxwell Institute for Religious Scholarship is an academic research unit at BYU composed of scholars whose primary interest is the study of religious texts and traditions.
The Institute consists of researchers who manage the following initiatives: The Institute also employs a small staff of office assistants, publications personnel, and a number of student interns.
Finally, it includes a three-member Research Technology Group.
This group works with software such as WordCruncher in order to help facilitate research of complex texts.
The Institute publishes books and journals for both general and academic readers.
Academic publications focus on early Christian studies, Middle Eastern texts, and Mormon studies, including the Mormon Studies Review.
Academic book-length titles often carry the BYU Press imprint and are distributed by the University of Chicago Press.
Publications for general readers consist of research and interpretation of the contents and contexts of ancient and modern LDS scripture, as well as scholarship that commends and defends the Mormon faith.
These publications include three periodicals—the Journal of the Book of Mormon and Other Restoration Scripture, Studies in the Bible and Antiquity, and the Mormon Studies Review.
One of the Institute's important publications is Royal Skousen's Book of Mormon Critical Text Project.
The Maxwell Institute Podcast features interviews with religious and textual scholars from a variety of religious traditions.
The Institute depicts its work as reflecting the relationship between faith and intellect, discipleship and scholarship in the Mormon tradition and in interaction with other world religions including wider Christianity, Judaism and Islam.
Interested LDS readers are urged to rely on their publications for thoughtful analysis of LDS scripture.
Institute scholars have also emphasized the hope that their publications dealing with texts from other religious traditions will broaden understanding and promote goodwill through interactions with Mormons and people of other faiths.
The Institute is named for former LDS apostle, Neal A. Maxwell, a man known by Latter-day Saints and others, not only for his poignant and learned writings and sermons, but also for his example as a disciple-scholar.
The Institute initiated a new Maxwell Institute Blog in March 2013.
The Maxwell Institute's work is made financially possible by support from BYU, independent donors, and periodical subscribers.
In addition, scholars and colleagues around the world donate their time and effort in helping to “seek out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith”.
In 2012, controversy and debate was sparked when Institute director Gerald Bradford removed Daniel C. Peterson from a long-time editorship of the FARMS Review (now Mormon Studies Review).
Peterson retained his position as editor of the Middle Eastern Texts Initiative (METI) until resigning from that post in September 2013.
Breaking the Spell: Religion as a Natural Phenomenon is a 2006 book in which the American philosopher and cognitive scientist Daniel Dennett argues that religion is in need of scientific analysis so that its nature and future may be better understood.
The "spell" that requires "breaking" is not religious belief itself but the belief that it is off-limits to or beyond scientific inquiry.
The book is divided into three parts.
Part I discusses the motivation and justification for the entire project: Can science study religion?
After answering in the affirmative, Part II proceeds to use the tools of evolutionary biology and memetics to suggest possible theories regarding the origin of religion and subsequent evolution of modern religions from ancient folk beliefs.
Part III analyzes religion and its effects in today's world: Does religion make us moral?
Is religion what gives meaning to life?
What should we teach the children?
Dennett bases much of his analysis on empirical evidence, though he often points out that much more research in this field is needed.
Dennett's working definition of religions is: "social systems whose participants avow belief in a supernatural agent or agents whose approval is to be sought."
He notes that this definition is "a place to start, not something carved in stone."
Generally, the book was well received, with The Guardian's Andrew Brown describing it as giving "a very forceful and lucid account of the reasons why we need to study religious behaviour as a human phenomenon".
In Scientific American, George Johnson describes the book's main draw as being "a sharp synthesis of a library of evolutionary, anthropological and psychological research on the origin and spread of religion.".
Finally, in The New Yorker, H. Allen Orr described the book as "an accessible account of what might be called the natural history of religion."
However, The New York Times, Leon Wieseltier called the book "a sorry instance of present-day scientism" and "a merry anthology of contemporary superstitions.".
Additionally, Charles T. Rubin, in the The New Atlantis, likened Dennett to "a tone-deaf music scholar", criticized his "unwillingness to admit the limits of scientific rationality" and accused him of "deploying the same old Enlightenment tropes that didn’t work all that well the first time around."
Breaking the Spell has been translated into several other languages, including:
Reynolds v. United States, 98 U.S. (8 Otto.)
145 (1878), was a Supreme Court of the United States case that held that religious duty was not a defense to a criminal indictment.
Reynolds was the first Supreme Court opinion to address the Impartial Jury and the Confrontation Clauses of the Sixth Amendment.
George Reynolds was a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), charged with bigamy under the Morrill Anti-Bigamy Act after marrying Amelia Jane Schofield while still married to Mary Ann Tuddenham in Utah Territory.
He was secretary to Brigham Young and presented himself as a test of the federal government's attempt to outlaw polygamy.
An earlier conviction was overturned on technical grounds.
The LDS Church, believing that the law unconstitutionally deprived its members of their First Amendment right to freely practice their religion, chose to ignore the Morrill Anti-Bigamy Act at the time.
On the other hand, in subsequent years, efforts had been underway to strengthen the anti-bigamy laws.
Eventually, amid the efforts to indict the LDS leadership for bigamy, the First Presidency agreed to furnish a defendant in a test case to be brought before the United States Supreme Court to determine the constitutionality of the anti-bigamy law.
Reynolds, a secretary in the office of the president of the church, agreed to serve as the defendant, then provided the attorney numerous witnesses who could testify of his being married to two wives, and was indicted for bigamy by a grand jury on October 23, 1874.
In 1875, Reynolds was convicted and sentenced to two years hard labor in prison and a fine of five hundred dollars.
In 1876 the Utah Territorial Supreme Court upheld the sentence.
Previously, U.S. Attorney William Carey promised to stop his attempts to indict general authorities during the test case.
However when Carey failed to keep his promise and arrested George Q. Cannon, LDS Church leaders decided that they would no longer cooperate with him.
Reynolds was indicted in the District Court for the 3rd Judicial District of the Territory of Utah under sect.
5352 of the Revised Statutes, which stated, as quoted in the Supreme Court decision: Reynolds tried to have the jury instructed that if they found he committed bigamy with the only intention of following his religion, then he must be found not guilty.
The trial court refused this request and instructed the jury that if they found that Reynolds, under religious influence, "deliberately married a second time, having a first wife living, the want of consciousness of evil intent—the want of understanding on his part that he was committing crime—did not excuse him, but the law inexorably, in such cases, implies criminal intent."
After being found guilty by the lower court, Reynolds appealed to the Utah Territorial Supreme Court, which upheld the conviction.
The Court affirmed Reynolds's conviction unanimously.
Chief Justice Morrison Waite wrote on behalf of himself and seven colleagues.
Justice Field wrote a concurrence that dissented on one minor point.
Before the Supreme Court, Reynolds argued that his conviction for bigamy should be overturned on four issues: that it was his religious duty to marry multiple times and the First Amendment protected his practice of his religion; that his grand jury had not been legally constituted; that challenges of certain jurors were improperly overruled; that testimony was not admissible as it was under another indictment.
The Court considered whether Reynolds could use religious belief or duty as a defense.
Reynolds had argued that as a Mormon, it was his religious duty as a male member of the church to practice polygamy if possible.
The Court recognized that under the First Amendment, the Congress cannot pass a law that prohibits the free exercise of religion.
However it held that the law prohibiting bigamy did not meet that standard.
The principle that a person could only be married singly, not plurally, existed since the times of King James I of England in English law, upon which United States law was based.
The Court investigated the history of religious freedom in the United States and quoted a letter from Thomas Jefferson in which he wrote that there was a distinction between religious belief and action that flowed from religious belief.
The former "lies solely between man and his God," therefore "the legislative powers of the government reach actions only, and not opinions."
The court considered that if polygamy was allowed, someone might eventually argue that human sacrifice was a necessary part of their religion, and "to permit this would be to make the professed doctrines of religious belief superior to the law of the land, and in effect to permit every citizen to become a law unto himself."
The Court believed the First Amendment forbade Congress from legislating against opinion, but allowed it to legislate against action.
Reynolds argued that the grand jury that had indicted him was not legal.
United States law at that time required that a grand jury consist of no fewer than 16 persons.
The grand jury that indicted Reynolds had only 15 persons.
The court rejected this argument because the Utah Territory had passed a law in 1870 under which a grand jury had to consist of only 15 persons.
During his original trial, Reynolds had challenged two jurors, both of whom stated that they had formed an opinion on the guilt or innocence of Reynolds before the trial.
The court held that universal education and press reports made it hard to find jurors who had not formed some opinion.
It found that Reynolds had failed to meet the requirement that he, as challenger of a juror's objectivity, demonstrate that a juror had developed a real and strong opinion.
The prosecution had discharged two potential jurors who refused to say whether or not they were living in polygamy.
The Court held that it would not overturn a case based on the legality of challenges to dismissed jurors.
The Court held that evidence Amelia Jane Schofield, Reynold's second wife, gave during an earlier trial of Reynolds for the same offense but under a different indictment was admissible.
Schofield could not be found during the second trial and so evidence from the previous trial was used.
The Court held that "if a witness is kept away by the adverse party, his testimony, taken on a former trial between the same parties upon the same issues, may be given in evidence".
The court held that Reynolds had every opportunity under oath to reveal the whereabouts of Schofield.
This was the one point on which Justice Field dissented, finding that the evidence should not have been allowed.
Reynolds had argued that the jury had been improperly instructed by the judge when he told them that they "should consider what are to be the consequences to the innocent victims of this delusion".
Reynolds argued that this introduced prejudice to the jury.
The Court held that Reynolds had freely admitted that he was a bigamist.
All the judge had done was "call the attention of the jury to the peculiar character of the crime" and had done so "not to make them partial, but to keep them impartial".
George Q. Cannon, representative of the territory, wrote in response to this decision: The New York Times defended the decision, noting that the 1862 act that banned bigamy, though "obviously directed at the polygamous practices of the Mormons, merely extended over the Territories the common law in relation to bigamy which exists in every State of the Union."
Its editorial ridiculed the Mormon defense of polygamy as a religious practice and said: "Similarly, a sect which should pretend, or believe, that incest, infanticide, or murder was a divinely appointed ordinance, to be observed under certain conditions, could set up that the enforcement of the common law, as against either [sic] of these practices, was an invasion of the rights of conscience."
It predicted the eventual success of the movement "to crush out polygamy in Utah."
Aqidah ( , plural , ʿaqāʾid, also sometimes spelled Aqeeda, ʿAqīdah or ʿAqīda) is an Islamic term meaning creed.
Many Schools of Islamic Theology expressing different views on aqidah exist.
Any religious belief system, or creed, can be considered an example of aqidah.
However, this term has taken a significant technical usage in Muslim history and theology, denoting those matters over which Muslims hold conviction.
It is a branch of Islamic studies describing the beliefs of the Islamic faith.
Literally, the word ʿaqīdah is derived from the triconsonantal root ʿqd (ʿaqada), which means "to tie" or "knot".
According to Muslim scholar Cyril Glasse, "systematic statements of belief became necessary, from early Islam on, initially to refute heresies, and later to distinguish points of view and to present them, as the divergences of schools of theology or opinion increased.
The "first" creed written as "a short answer to the pressing heresies of the time" is known as Fiqh Akbar and ascribed to Abū Ḥanīfa.
Two well known creeds were the Fiqh Akbar II "representative" of the al-Ash'ari, and Fiqh Akbar III, "representative" of the Ash-Shafi'i.
Al-Ghazali also had a ʿAqīdah.
These creeds were more detailed than those described below.
The six articles of faith or belief, derived from the Quran and Sunnah (Arkan al-Iman).
is accepted by all Muslims.
While there are differences between Shias and Sunnis and other different schools or sects, concerning issues such as the attributes of God or about the purpose of angels, the six articles are not disputed.
The six Sunni articles of belief are: The first five are based on several Qurʾānic creeds: The sixth point made it into the creed because of the first theological controversy in Islām.
Although not connected with the sunni-shiʿi controversy about the succession, the majority of Twelfer Shiʿites do not stress God's limitless power (qadar), but rather is boundless justice ʿadl as the sixth point of believe – this does not mean that Sunnis deny his justice, or Shiʿites negate his power, just the emphasis is different.
In Sunni and Shia view, having Iman literally means to have belief in Six articles.
However the importance of Iman relies heavily upon reasons.
Islam explicitly asserts that belief should be maintained in that which can be proven using faculties of perception and conception.
Tawhid ("doctrine of Oneness") is the concept of monotheism in Islam.
It is the religion's most fundamental concept and holds that God (Allah) is one (wāḥid) and unique (āḥad), and the Only One worthy of Worship which is exactly what Jews and Christians also believe that only the Uncreated can be worshiped.
A creature cannot be worshiped.
According to Islamic belief, Allah is the proper name of God, and humble submission to his will, divine ordinances and commandments is the pivot of the Muslim faith.
"He is the only God, creator of the universe, and the judge of humankind."
"He is unique (wāḥid) and inherently one (aḥad), all-merciful and omnipotent."
The Qur'an declares "the reality of Allah, His inaccessible mystery, His various names, and His actions on behalf of His creatures.
Iman, in Islamic theology denotes a believer's faith in the metaphysical aspects of Islam.
Its most simple definition is the belief in the six articles of faith, known as arkān al-īmān.
The Hadith of Gabriel includes the Five Pillars of Islam (Tawhid, Salat, Sawm, Zakat, Hajj) in answer to the question, "O messenger of God, what is Islam?"
This hadith is sometimes called the "truly first and most fundamental creed".
Salat, is the practice of formal worship in Islam.
Its importance for Muslims is indicated by its status as one of the Five Pillars of Islam, with a few dispensations for those for whom it would be difficult.
People who find it physically difficult can perform Salat in a way suitable for them.
To perform valid Salat, Muslims must be in a state of ritual purity, which is mainly achieved by ritual ablution, (wuḍūʾ), according to prescribed procedures.
Sawm, is the word for fasting regulated by Islamic jurisprudence.
In the terminology of Islamic law, sawm means to abstain from eating, drinking (including water) and sexual intercourse from dawn till dusk.
The observance of sawm during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan is one of the Five Pillars of Islam, but is not confined to that month.
Zakāt, or alms-giving is the practice of charitable giving by Muslims based on accumulated wealth, and is obligatory for all who are able to do so.
It is considered to be a personal responsibility for Muslims to ease economic hardship for others and eliminate inequality.
The Hajj, is an Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca and the largest gathering of Muslims in the world every year.
It is one of the five pillars of Islam, and a religious duty which must be carried out by every able-bodied Muslim who can afford to do so at least once in his or her lifetime.
In addition some Muslims include Jihad, Dawah as part of ʿAqīdah Jihad, literally means to endeavor, strive, labor to apply oneself, to concentrate, to work hard, to accomplish.
It could be used to refer to those who physically, mentally or economically serve in the way of Allah.
Da‘wah ("invitation") means the proselytizing or preaching of Islam.
Da‘wah literally means "issuing a summon" or "making an invitation", being an active participle of a verb meaning variously "to summon" or "to invite".
A Muslim who practices da‘wah, either as a religious worker or in a volunteer community effort, is called a dā‘ī (داعي plural du‘āh, gen: du‘āt دعاة).
A dā‘ī is thus a person who invites people to understand Islam through dialogue, not unlike the Islamic equivalent of a missionary inviting people to the faith, prayer and manner of Islamic life.
Eschatology is literally understood as the last things or ultimate things and in Muslim theology, eschatology refers to the end of this world and what will happen in the next world or hereafter.
Eschatology covers the death of human beings, their souls after their bodily death, the total destruction of this world, the resurrection of human souls, the final judgment of human deeds by Allāh after the resurrection, and the rewards and punishments for the believers and non-believers respectively.
The places for the believers in the hereafter are known as Paradise and for the non-believers as Hell.
Muslim theology is the theology and interpretation of creed (aqidah) that derived from the Qur'an and Hadith.
The contents of Muslim theology can be divided into theology proper such as theodicy, eschatology, anthropology, apophatic theology, and comparative religion.
In the history of Muslim theology, there have been theological schools among Muslims displaying both similarities and differences with each other in regard to beliefs.
For the Atharis, the "clear" meaning of the Qur'an and especially the prophetic traditions have sole authority in matters of belief, as well as law, and to engage in rational disputation, even if one arrives at the truth, is absolutely forbidden.
Atharis engage in an amodal reading of the Qur'an, as opposed to one engaged in Ta'wil (metaphorical interpretation).
They do not attempt to rationally conceptualize the meanings of the Qur'an and believe that the real meanings should be consigned to God alone (tafwid).
This theology was taken from exegesis of the Quran and statements of the early Muslims and later codified by a number of scholars including Ahmad ibn Hanbal and Ibn Qudamah.
Kalām is the Islamic philosophy of seeking theological principles through dialectic.
In Arabic, the word literally means "speech/words".
A scholar of kalām is referred to as a mutakallim (Muslim theologian; plural mutakallimūn).
Shiʿi Muslims hold that there are five articles of belief.
Similar to the Sunnis, the Shiʿis do not believe in complete predestination, or complete free will.
They believe that in human life there is a both free will and predestination.
The branch of Islam known as the Ismāʿīlīs is the second largest Shiʿi community.
They observe the following pillars of Islam: In terms of the relationship between human beings and their creator, Mu'tazilites emphasize human free will over predestination.
They also reduced the divine attributes to the divine essence.
Many Muslim scholars have attempted to explain Islamic creed in general, or specific aspects of aqidah.
The following list contains some of the most well-known literature.
<gallery> File:Bosnian Book of the Science of Conduct WDL7479.pdf|Bosniak "Book of the Science of Conduct" lists 54 religious duties that each Muslim must know about, believe in, and fulfill.
Published in 1831, the handbook is by the Bosnian author and poet Abdulwahāb Žepčewī.
File:Book of Wisdom WDL6937.pdf|"Book of Wisdom" based on Islamic Theology by Khoja Akhmet Yassawi (died 1166) File:Brief Explanation of the “Safeguards of Transmission” of Guidance to the True Path WDL6901.pdf|“Safeguards of Transmission” by Ubayd Allāh ibn Masūd ibn Mahmud ibn Ahmad al-Mahbūbī (died 1346).
John F. Haught is a Distinguished Research Professor at Georgetown University.
He specializes in systematic theology, with a particular interest in issues pertaining to science, cosmology, evolution, ecology, and religion.
He has authored numerous books and articles, including Science and Faith: A New Introduction (2012), Making Sense of Evolution: Darwin, God, and The Drama of Life ( 2010), God and the New Atheism: A Critical Response to Dawkins, Harris, and Hitchens (2008), Christianity and Science: Toward a Theology of Nature (2007), Is Nature Enough?
Meaning and Truth in the Age of Science (2006), Purpose, Evolution and the Meaning of Life (2004), God After Darwin: A Theology of Evolution (2000, 2nd ed.
2007), Science and Religion: From Conflict to Conversation (1995), The Promise of Nature: Ecology and Cosmic Purpose (1993, 2nd ed.
(1986), and The Cosmic Adventure: Science, Religion and the Quest for Purpose (1984).
In 2002, Haught received the Owen Garrigan Award in Science and Religion, in 2004 the Sophia Award for Theological Excellence, and in 2008 a “Friend of Darwin Award” from the National Center for Science Education.
He also testified for the plaintiffs in Harrisburg, PA “Intelligent Design Trial”(Kitzmiller et al.
vs. Dover Board of Education).
John F. Haught was born in 1942 Parents: Paul and Angela Haught Wife: Evelyn Haught graduated from St. Mary's Seminary and University in Baltimore in 1964 and subsequently received his PhD in theology from The Catholic University of America in Washington DC in 1968 (Dissertation: Foundations of the Hermeneutics of Eschatology).
From 1969 to 2005 Haught taught in the Department of Theology at Georgetown University in Washington D.C., serving as theology department chair between 1990 and 1995.
In addition, he has been a Landegger Distinguished Professor and Thomas Healey Distinguished Professor, and held the D’Angelo Chair in Humanities at St. John’s University (2008), and was visiting professor at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome (2010).
In his early 20’s, John Haught started reading the works of the Jesuit priest and geologist Pierre Teilhard de Chardin.
As an undergraduate student at St. Mary’s Seminary and University, Haught had majored in philosophy and completed graduate work in philosophical theology, though he was never ordained.
While teaching science and religion at Georgetown University and writing books on the topic, he specialized in the areas of cosmology and biology.
During his studies, he concluded that Thomistic metaphysics could not adequately contextualize the discoveries of evolutionary biology and Big Bang physics.
As the intellectual backbone of his courses, he turned to science-friendly 20th century philosophers such as Alfred North Whitehead, Michael Polanyi, Bernard Lonergan, and Hans Jonas.
His books Science and Religion: From Conflict to Conversation (1995) and more recently Science and Faith: a New Introduction (2012) reflect an approach developed over many years of teaching at Georgetown University.
During the 1990s, he became increasingly involved in issues relating to evolution, especially because of their growing importance in the intellectual world and the claims by creationists and prominent evolutionists alike that Darwinian science and belief in God are irreconcilable.
The American cultural warfare over the teaching of Intelligent Design led Haught to write such books as God After Darwin, Deeper than Darwin, and Making Sense of Evolution.
These and other works have led to numerous lectures on theology and evolution nationally and internationally.
In his works, John Haught argues that an open-minded search for intelligibility requires a plurality of distinct “horizons of inquiry,” allowing for the harmonious cohabitation of science (including evolutionary biology) and religious belief.
Haught views science and religion as two different and noncompeting levels of explanation, asserting that "science and religion cannot logically stand in a competitive relationship with each other."
In 2005, Haught testified on behalf of the plaintiffs at the Harrisburg PA trial against the teaching of Intelligent Design in public schools.
His testimony earned him the “Friend of Darwin” award from the National Center for Science Education.
Haught emphasizes that theology looks for levels of meaning and truth that scientific method is not wired to receive.
“Theology has its own horizon of inquiry.
It is grounded in a qualitatively distinct set of questions from those asked by scientists and ethicists.
The data that give rise to distinctively theological questions include an easily recognizable set of beliefs and ethical commitments that do not show up within the horizon of scientific inquiry, but which every scientist must embrace in order to do science at all.
Belief (faith or trust) that the world, including the horizon of scientific inquiry, is intelligible.
Belief that truth is worth seeking.
Belief that honesty, humility, generosity, and openness in sharing one’s ideas and discoveries are unconditionally right (and hence that the pursuit of virtue is not irrelevant to successful scientific work.)
Belief that one’s own mind has the capacity to grasp intelligibility and to distinguish what is true from what is false.” Haught was the winner of the 2002 Owen Garrigan Award in Science and Religion and the 2004 Sophia Award for Theological Excellence.
In 2009, in recognition of his work on theology and science, Haught was awarded the degree of Doctor Honoris Causa by the University of Louvain and the Friend of Darwin Award from the National Center for Science Education.
In the May 25 - June 1, 2015 issue of America: The National Catholic Review, Robert E. Lauder, Professor of Philosophy at St. John’s University, provided a review of John Haught’s works, including, What is God?
How to Think About the Divine (1986), God After Darwin: A Theology of Evolution, and Mystery and Promise.
Other expert evaluations of the works of John Haught include Carter Phipps, the author of Evolutionaries: Unlocking the Spiritual and Cultural Potential of Science’s Greatest Idea (2012).
Phipps’ article, “A Theologian of Renewal”, won a Gold Folio award for editorial excellence.
“On the surface, Haught might appear quite conventional, even traditional—a simple bespectacled academic with a strong interest in the relationship between science and spirit.
But appearances can be deceiving.
The more I learned, the more I began to understand that Haught’s mainstream credentials were in fact concealing a much more interesting subtext—a more subversive subplot, if you will… Haught is certainly a Christian, and he easily speaks the language of faith, God, and belief.
But he is also emerging as a significant player in a larger spiritual project, one that transcends and includes any specific tradition… Haught calls his offering to that emerging tradition “evolutionary theology.” By whatever name, these new approaches are shaking the pillars of tradition and recontextualizing the way we understand both science and religion.” Haught testified as an expert witness for the plaintiffs in the case of Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District.
He testified that the effect of the intelligent design policy adopted by the Dover School board would "be to compel public school science teachers to present their students in biology class information that is inherently religious, not scientific in nature."
He also testified that materialism, the philosophy that only matter exists, is "a belief system, no less a belief system than is intelligent design.
And as such, it has absolutely no place in the classroom, and teachers of evolution should not lead their students craftily or explicitly to ... feel that they have to embrace a materialistic world-view in order to make sense of evolution."
Haught has participated in several public debates about the compatibility of science and religion, sharing the stage with Daniel Dennett at the City University of New York in 2009, Kenneth Miller at the New York Academy of Sciences in 2011, and Jerry Coyne at the University of Kentucky in 2011.
After agreeing to be taped for his debate with Coyne, Haught attempted to block release of the videos, objecting primarily to what he saw as ad hominem attacks and personal ridicule by Coyne.
Coyne called Haught's action the "cowardly and intellectually dishonest actions of a theologian".
After a strong public reaction, Haught agreed to the release of the video so long as Coyne posted Haught's letter of explanation along with it.
Taking issue in the letter with Coyne's characterization, Haught's opposition to the release and Coyne's final list of Catholic "evils" as a way to end the presentation, Haught explained that he sought to "protect the public from such a preposterous and logic-offending &hellip; presentation."
Cyril and Methodius Seminary is a four-year private Polish seminary in Orchard Lake, Michigan.
The seminary, taking its name from Saints Cyril and Methodius, was founded in 1885 in Detroit, Michigan, to prepare candidates for the Roman Catholic priesthood primarily to serve Polish American immigrant communities.
Approval for founding such a seminary was granted on January 14, 1879, by Pope Leo XIII upon the petition of Father Leopold Moczygemba,a Conventual Franciscan, founder of the Polish settlement in Panna Maria, Texas, in 1854.
The establishment of the seminary was realized by Father Joseph Dabrowski, the first rector, who obtained approval from Bishop Caspar Borgess of Detroit for constructing a building on St. Aubin Avenue between Forest Avenue and Garfield Street and organizing the seminary program.
Increasing enrollment and the need for additional space led the second rector, Father Witold Buchaczkowski, to transfer the seminary in 1909 from Detroit to the site of the former Michigan Military Academy in the rural village of Orchard Lake, northwest of Detroit.
The original academic program of the seminary consisted of ten years of studies: five in the preparatory classical department and five in the upper division, namely, two in philosophy and three in theology.
In 1927, three four-year administratively independent schools were established: SS.
Cyril and Methodius Seminary, St. Mary's College, and St. Mary's Preparatory, known collectively at present as the Orchard Lake Schools.
In 1968, the Seminary began to provide a training program for permanent deacons, field education for seminarians, and continuing education for adults.
In the ensuing years, the following degree programs were introduced: Master of Divinity (1973) for priesthood candidates, religious, and lay women and men; Master of Religious Education (1977), later designated as Master of Arts in Religious Education (1989); and Master of Arts in Pastoral Ministry (1989), an upgrading of the Certificate in Pastoral Ministry, which had been in existence since 1975.
Cyril and Methodius Seminary became an associate member of the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada (ATS).
In 1992 the seminary was granted candidacy for accredited status in the association and undertook a two-year self-study as part of the process leading toward accreditation.
Cyril and Methodius Seminary was granted initial accreditation by ATS in January, 1995.
Doubtless a native of Ireland, Clement Scotus lived in the Frankish realm in the time of St. Boniface, who was then archbishop of Mentz.
He contended against Boniface's attempts to introduce the complete Roman discipline into Germany, but in vain.
The archbishop cited him before a synod in 743 or 744, at which Carloman and Pepin were present.
Clement was deprived of his priesthood and imprisoned for his acts and opinions, which it deemed heretical.
Pope Zacharias, to whom the affair was reported, approved Boniface's action and confirmed the former part of the sentence.
The charges against Clement were first, that he had a wife—although Boniface calls her a concubine—and two children; more than this, that he justified marriage with a deceased brother's wife, in conformity with the Jewish law.
In dogmatic theology Clement held views which seemed to contradict the Latin doctrine of predestination.
He also asserted that Christ on rising from the dead 'delivered all who had been Kept in prison, faithful and unbelievers, worshippers of God as well as idolaters.'
This description, drawn by his enemy, probably indicates that Clement maintained a universalism of some sort.
He was also accused of denying the canons of the church and rejecting the authority of Saint Jerome, Saint Augustine, and Saint Gregory.
He had in fact brought into collision with the unfriendly rigour of Latin Christianity those freer usages and more speculative habits of thought which prevailed in the Church of Ireland, at this time the fountain-head of literary culture and missionary enterprise for the west of Europe.
The German opponents of Boniface, who seem to have been in a majority, must have supported Clement.
When the matter was brought before a synod at Rome, on 25 Oct. 745 (not 746 or 748, as was formerly supposed), Deneard, Boniface's representative, stated that the archbishop was powerless to close his mouth.
The synod confirmed Boniface's action, anathematised Clement, and once more declared him to be deprived of his orders.
But in spite of this sentence Clement persisted in his opinions, and so soon as 5 Jan. 747 we find the pope writing again to Boniface, enjoining him to re-examine the whole question at a council which was shortly to be held in Germany, and to do his best to bring Clement to repentance; should he prove contumacious, he was to be sent on to Rome.
The outcome of the affair is not known; but it is probable that Clement's case from the beginning was prejudiced by the fact that his opinions were mixed up in all the proceedings with those of a certain Adelbert, who held views of a very fanatical character.
Clement, on the other hand, to judge even from the meagre and distorted accounts of his doctrine which we possess, seems to represent in some ways the free characteristics of Irish theology expressed in the writings of his countryman, John Scotus, a century later.
This Clement has been often confounded with the subject of the following article; cf.
Dempster, 'Hist.
Wesley Wildman is a contemporary Australian-American philosopher, theologian, and ethicist.
Currently, he is a full professor at the Boston University School of Theology and convener of the Religion and Science doctoral program in Boston University’s Graduate School.
He is founding co-director of the Institute for the Biocultural Study of Religion and founding co-editor of the journal Religion, Brain & Behavior (published by Taylor & Francis).
Wildman’s academic work has focused on interpreting religion and building theories of religious beliefs, behaviors, and experiences that acknowledge value in longstanding traditions while attempting to remain intellectually viable in light of the biological, cognitive, evolutionary, physical, and social sciences.
He is an important figure in the religion and science field, along with scholars such as Robert John Russell, Nancey Murphy, and John Polkinghorne.
Wesley Wildman was born in Adelaide, Australia, in 1961.
He studied mathematics, computer science, and physics at Flinders University, receiving a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1980 and a first-class honors degree in pure mathematics in 1981.
After studying divinity at the University of Sydney, he earned a Ph.D. in philosophical theology and the philosophy of religion from the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, California, in 1993, at which point he took his current position at Boston University.
Currently, he lives in suburban Boston.
Wildman’s work initially focused on one religious tradition, Christianity, especially its beliefs.
His first book, Fidelity with Plausibility (1998), analyzed the plausibility of central Christian beliefs in the context of the contemporary physical and human sciences and the history of encounter with the other religions.
Since then, Wildman’s philosophical and theological goals have broadened as he has attempted to interpret religion as a social, cultural, and evolutionary phenomenon.
This broadening has included a longstanding interest in the comparative study of world religious traditions and involvement in a series of publications on interdisciplinary methodology and practice spanning the humanities and sciences as they relate to religion.
Many of Wildman’s works have explored the subject of religious naturalism, or religious responses to naturalistic conceptions of reality.
This line of research has included critiques of anthropomorphic conceptions of ultimate reality and the ongoing attempt to frame ideas of ultimate reality naturalistically—that is, without recourse to non-embodied awareness or supernatural agency in God or in any other realm of reality.
A related line of inquiry in Wildman’s corpus investigates the biological, cultural, and evolutionary mechanisms whereby human beings generate supernaturalistic conceptions of ultimate reality.
Wildman has sought to rescue philosophy of religion from what he has described as its religiously parochial character by redefining it as a field of multidisciplinary, comparative inquiries rooted in secular academic institutions.
Along with neurologist Patrick McNamara, also at Boston University, Wildman founded the Institute for the Biocultural Study of Religion, an independent scientific research institute that pursues research and public outreach on the scientific study of religious phenomena.
In 2011, the Institute began publication of Religion, Brain, & Behavior, a peer-reviewed academic journal whose advisory board includes such figures as philosopher Daniel Dennett, religion scholar Ann Taves, sociologist of religion Nancy Ammerman, and many of the leading figures in the scientific study of religion and the cognitive science of religion.
Wildman is also known for pastoral research into ideological differences in Christian denominations, particularly the meaning of the distinctions among liberal, evangelical, and moderate Protestants in the United States.
His work has been influenced by such figures as Protestant theologians Friedrich Schleiermacher and Paul Tillich, comparative religion scholar Huston Smith, and philosophers John Searle and Robert Neville.
Wildman is a founding member of the International Society for Science and Religion, and a longtime member of the American Theological Society, the American Academy of Religion, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
The Shabaka Stone, sometimes Shabaqo, is a relic from the Nubian Twenty-fifth Dynasty of Egypt incised with an Egyptian religious text.
It is a composition of breccia measuring 91 cm on the left in height and 95 cm on the right as well as 137 cm in width.
The text claims to contain the surviving content of a worm-ridden, decaying papyrus that was found as pharaoh Shabaka was inspecting the temple of Ptah in Memphis, Egypt.
In later years, the stone is believed to have been used as a millstone damaging the hieroglyphics.
This damage is accompanied by other intentional defacements, leaving the hieroglyphics in poor condition.
It was once placed within the Temple of Ptah in Memphis in the 8th century BCE.
It was removed at an unknown date.
In 1805, the stone was a donation by George John, 2nd earl of Spencer, to the British Museum where it has been located since.
It is known that prior to coming to England it was in Alexandria, but how it got there or when is unknown.
Since this stone was meant to be a preservation of an older text, the question regarding the dating of the original work has been sought after.
Attempts to attribute a definite date for the original text has been inconclusive.
Some scholars claimed it originated in the Old Kingdom while others said it went further back.
Today, scholars feel it is clear that it cannot predate the Nineteenth Dynasty.
The text includes two main divisions with a short introduction and an ending summary.
The first division relates the unification of Upper and Lower Egypt.
Ptah works through Horus to accomplish this unification.
The other is a creation story that establishes Ptah as the creator of all things, including gods.
Ptah also centers in all things such as the heart and tongue of his creations, and thus, in a sense, making him the center of existence.
The manner of creation came by Ptah's thoughts in his heart that were then uttered by his tongue.
This creation story is sometimes referred to as a Memphite Theology.
The Employment Equality (Religion or Belief) Regulations 2003 is a plank of United Kingdom labour law designed to combat discrimination in relation to people's religion or belief, or absence of religion or belief.
They were introduced in order to comply with the European Union Directive 2000/78/EC and complement similar measures on sexuality, age, disability, race and gender discrimination.
The EU Directive in turn is similar to legislation passed in the United States.
The Regulations have been revoked by, and the substantive provisions included in, the Equality Act 2010.
The main provisions of the regulations are to make direct and indirect discrimination against an employee or potential employee on the grounds of religion unlawful.
They also make it unlawful to discriminate by way of victimization, or to harass an employee on grounds of religious belief.
The regulations also extend to cover providers and of vocational training in relation to those undergoing training for any employment, and to those acting as employment agencies and giving careers advice.
There are exceptions for genuine occupational requirements, for national security, and for positive discrimination for overcoming disadvantages pertaining to adherents of a religious belief or to encourage religious adherents to take advantage of opportunities for work.
A special clause protects Sikhs from requirements pertaining to the wearing of safety helmets.
The Bhutanese Constitution of 2008 and previous law provide for freedom of religion in Bhutan; however, the government has limited non-Buddhist missionary activity, barring non-Buddhist missionaries from entering the country, limiting construction of non-Buddhist religious buildings, and restricting the celebration of some non-Buddhist religious festivals.
Drukpa Kagyu (Mahayana) Buddhism is the state religion, although in the southern areas many citizens openly practice Hinduism.
Through 2007, there were no reports of violence associated with pressure to conform to Mahayana beliefs.
Nor were there reports of societal abuse or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
While there were no reports of the repetition of the conformist excesses of the late 1980s and early 1990s, societal and governmental pressure for conformity with Drukpa Kagyupa norms was prevalent.
Approximately two-thirds to three-quarters of the population practice Drukpa Kagyu or Nyingma Buddhism, both of which are disciplines of Mahayana Buddhism.
Approximately one-quarter of the population are ethnic Nepalese and practice Hinduism.
They live mainly in the south and follow the Shaivite, Vaishnavite, Shakta, Ghanapathi, Puranic, and Vedic schools.
Christians both Roman Catholic and Protestant and nonreligious groups comprised less than one percent of the population.
Bön, the country's animist and shamanistic belief system, revolves around the worship of nature and predates Buddhism.
Very few citizens adhere exclusively to this religious group.
The most authoritative law regarding religious freedom in Bhutan is its Constitution.
Other ancillary acts of Bhutanese legislation provide the substantive and procedural framework to ensure religious freedom and regulate religious bodies.
Religious freedom in Bhutan is shaped by the evolving laws and policies of the Bhutanese government regarding discrimination, organizations, national security and social order, and family law.
Although Bhutan’s National Assembly had banned open practice of non-Buddhist and non-Hindu religions by passing resolutions in 1969 and in 1979, the current legal framework on its face unequivocally provides religious freedom for all.
The Constitution of 2008 affirms the Drukpa Kagyu sect as the state religion, though it designates the King of Bhutan as the protector of all religions in Butan.
Under Bhutan's current constitutional framework, freedom of religion is guaranteed; however, the Constitution places limits on political activity by religious figures and on proselytism.
Under the Constitution, religious institutions and personalities have a duty "to promote the spiritual heritage of the country while also ensuring that religion remains separate from politics" and that religious institutions and personalities remain "above politics," which is construed to disqualify registered monks from voting as well as running for office.
The Constitution further prohibits political parties or activities based on religion.
The Constitution guarantees every Bhutanese citizen "the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion.
No person shall be compelled to belong to another faith by means of coercion or inducement."
It further provides "[a]ll persons are equal before the law and are entitled to equal and effective protection of the law and shall not be discriminated against on the grounds of race, sex, language, religion, politics or other status."
The constitutional clause regarding "coercion or inducement" has been interpreted by a district court to prohibit not only forced conversion but also proselytism in the case of a Christian missionary pastor who used a generator and a projector.
The Religious Organizations Act of 2007 aims to protect and preserve the spiritual heritage of Bhutan through providing for the registration and administration of religious organizations.
To meet those goals, the Act creates the Chhoedey Lhentshog as the regulatory authority on religious organizations.
This body is composed of eight persons, six of whom have decision making power: a Cabinet Minister appointed by the Prime Minister as the chairperson; the Tshugla Lopon of the Gedun Dratshang, an ex officio member; one eminent member of the National Council; one eminent Trulku, Khenpo, or Lam nominated by the Lams of the Nyingma Chhoedey; one eminent Anim nominated by Heads of Anim Chhoedey; one eminent Pandit nominated by the Pandits of Hindu Dharmic Samudai; a senior official from the Ministry of Finance appointed by the Finance Minister; and the Director of Culture, Ministry of Home and Cultural Affairs, an ex officio member secretary.
The Chhoedey Lhentshog is tasked with managing, monitoring, and regulating all religious organizations except the Gedun Dratshang (overseen by the monastic authority); with promoting the principles and values of peace, non-violence, compassion and tolerance; and with creating conditions that will enable "the true and sustainable development of a good and compassionate society rooted in Buddhist ethos."
Religious organizations, in turn, must be transparent and accountable, and "respect indigenous knowledge and customs, individuals’ dignity, identity, culture and values."
The Religious Organizations Act requires each religious organization to register with the Chhoedey Lhentshog, which in turn issues a certificate of registration if the applicant organization meets the requirements of the Act.
The registrant must hold Bhutanese citizenship and disclose his assets, educational qualifications, and any criminal convictions.
In the vent of a denial, the Act provides for appeal to the courts.
When a group receives recognition through registration, a group still requires permission from local authorities to hold public meetings.
Receiving foreign aid or inviting foreign speakers is subject to special permission from the Ministry of Home and Cultural Affairs.
Otherwise, registered organizations enjoy exemption from taxes and a series rights and duties incident to corporate personhood.
Organizations must, among other duties, report assets, contributions, expenditures, and liabilities to the Chhoedey Lhentshog, which maintains public records.
The Religious Organizations Act also outlines specific requirements for organizations' internal workings, providing a framework analogous to codes in other countries for nonprofit or religious corporations.
For all religious organizations, the Act specifies corporate structure; bylaw requirements; meeting and quorum rules; corporate liabilities; fundraising and collection rules; merger; and dissolution and disposal of assets.
The Act further codifies the elements of six offenses specifically in relation to religious organizations and their members: false statements; false or misleading information; breach of trust; misuse of investment; unlawful collection; and illegal fundraising.
Illegal fundraising is defined as a petty misdemeanor resulting in a fine or suspension or cancellation of registration.
All other crimes are delegated to the Penal Code for definition.
By March 2009, no religious organizations had actually been registered, and the Chhoedey Lhentshog had just had its first meeting.
In September 2010, the Chhoedey Lhentshog published a list of fourteen categories of religious personalities, including gomchens, anims, trulkus, khenpos, latruels, pujariyas, and pandits, who were prohibited from participating in secular elections; the common element among the categories was the receipt of monetary assistance from the government.
Some such persons serve as civil servants, however.
By November 2010, the Chhoedey Lhentshog was committed to discussing how a Christian organization could be registered to represent its community at its next semiannual meeting.
After this statement but ahead of any results, the government was seen by as likely to register only one Christian organization and to expect it to represent all Christians in Bhutan, calling for Christian unity.
Similarly, Hindus, constituting around 22 percent of the population, were also represented by a single legal entity, the Hindu Dharma Samudaya (Hindu Religion Community) of Bhutan.
Law enforcement also reflects the policy of the government toward freedom of religion, particularly toward the protection of individuals' religious identities.
The National Security Act prohibits "words either spoken or written, or by other means whatsoever, that promote or attempt to promote, on grounds of religion, race, language, caste or community, or on any other ground whatsoever, feelings of enmity or hatred between different religious, racial or language groups or castes and communities."
Violating the NSA is punishable with up to 3 years' imprisonment although it is not clear that the government has enforced this provision of the act.
As of November 2010, parliament was reportedly in the process of revising the Penal Code to include conversions "by force or allurement."
The Marriage Act of 1980, as amended in 1996, addresses questions of family law subjects such as marriage, divorce, adoption, and child custody.
Traditionally, Buddhists and Hindus have resolved questions of family law according to their religion; however, this is changing as the country takes steps to strengthen its legal system.
The country's evolving legal system is based on customary law and Buddhist precepts.
Through 2007, the law provided for freedom of religion; however, the Government limited this right in practice.
Mahayana Buddhism is the state religion.
The Government discouraged both large and small religious gatherings of non-Buddhists, did not allow construction of non-Buddhist places of worship, and did not allow non-Buddhist missionaries to work in the country.
No new buildings, including new places of worship, could be constructed without licenses.
While previous law did not restrict the right to convert or proselytize, proselytism was prohibited based on a Royal Government decision.
There were, however, no laws against publishing religious material.
An annual government grant finances the country's monastic body of 3,500 monks.
The Government committed to providing this support as a result of the 1956 land reform program, which stripped the monastic establishment of wide tracts of fertile land for redistribution among the landless.
As of 2007, 10 seats in the 150-seat National Assembly and 2 seats on the 11-member Royal Advisory Council were reserved for Buddhist monks by statute and out of respect for the country's tradition of Buddhist spiritual oversight.
There are no religious stipulations on the remaining seats.
Many non-Buddhists have worked for the Government.
In 2007, the Special Commission for Cultural Affairs, with a Hindu priest as a member, also advised on religious matters.
Major Buddhist holy days are state holidays.
The King declared one major Hindu festival as a national holiday, and the royal family participated in it.
As of 2007, NGO representatives living outside the country and dissidents reported to U.S. State Department sources that only Drukpa Kagyu and Nyingma Buddhist religious teaching was permitted in schools, and that Buddhist prayer was compulsory in all government run schools.
The Government contended that there was no religious curriculum in modern educational institutions in the country.
Buddhist teaching was permitted only in monastic schools; religious teaching was forbidden in other schools.
Local NGO interlocutors confirmed that although students took part in a prayer session each morning, it was nondenominational and not compulsory.
The Government requires all citizens to conform to driglam namzha, namely by wearing the traditional Ngalop dress in public places; however, the government only strictly enforced this law for visits to Buddhist religious buildings, monasteries, government offices, schools, and for attendance at official functions and public ceremonies.
Some citizens commented that enforcement of this law was arbitrary and sporadic.
Followers of religious groups other than Buddhism and Hinduism generally were free to worship in private homes, but NGOs alleged that they were prohibited from erecting religious buildings or congregating in public.
Some Christian groups reported that religious meetings must be held discreetly, especially in rural areas, for fear of the authorities.
In 2007, the U.S. State Department mentioned one reported building used for Christian worship in the south.
Through 2007, no new buildings, including places of worship, could be constructed without government licenses.
Reports by ethnic Nepalese citizens suggested that this process favored Buddhist temples over Hindu temples.
The government provided financial assistance for the construction of Buddhist temples and shrines and state funding for monks and monasteries.
NGOs alleged that the government rarely granted permission to build Hindu temples; the last report of such construction was in the early 1990s, when the government authorized the construction and renovation of Hindu temples and centers of Sanskrit and Hindu learning and provided state funds to help finance the projects.
The government argued that it was a matter of supply and demand, with demand for Buddhist temples far exceeding that for Hindu temples.
The Government stated that it supported numerous Hindu temples in the south, where most Hindus reside, and provided some scholarships for Hindus to study Sanskrit in India.
Certain senior civil servants, regardless of religion, are required to take an oath of allegiance to the king, the country, and the people.
The oath does not have religious content, but a Buddhist lama administers it.
Dissidents alleged that applicants have been asked their religion before receiving government services.
In 2007, there were no reports of promotion denials to some of the handful of Christians in government service; however, there had been such reports in the past.
In January 2006 authorities arrested two civil servants in the village of Nago in Paro District, accusing them of engaging in acts of proselytism under the false pretext of holding an official meeting, maligning the Spiritual Head of Bhutan, posing as officials on official business, and giving false information.
In accordance with provisions in the Penal Code and the National Security Act, both men were found guilty in a district court.
Christian groups maintained the men were arrested due to their religious beliefs since, according to these groups, the men were arrested while showing a Christian film in a Buddhist home.
They were sentenced in early June 2006 in an open trial with a public hearing to three and a half years and three years in prison.
They did not appeal the court judgment, although the right to appeal was provided for by law.
On July 28, 2006, both men were released after payment of a fine.
Richard Joseph Malone (born March 19, 1946) is an American prelate of the Roman Catholic Church and the current Bishop of Buffalo, New York.
Richard Malone was born in Salem, Massachusetts, and raised in Hamilton and Beverly; he has one sister, Harriet, who teaches art at St. John's Preparatory School in Danvers.
He graduated from St. John's Prep in 1964, and then attended Cardinal O'Connell Seminary and St. John's Seminary in Boston, where he obtained his Bachelor's degree in Philosophy and in Divinity, as well as his Master's in Theology.
Malone was ordained to the priesthood by Archbishop Humberto Medeiros on May 20, 1972, and then served as associate pastor of St. Patrick Parish in Stoneham until 1974.
He taught at St. Clement High School in Medford (1974–1976) and at Xaverian Brothers High School in Westwood (1976–1979), where he also served as a chaplain.
In 1979, Malone joined the faculty of St. John Seminary, his alma mater, teaching religious and theological studies and serving as registrar and dean until 1990.
In addition to his duties at the seminary, he was also a part-time chaplain at Wellesley and Regis Colleges, and a teacher at Emmanuel College.
He obtained his doctorate in theology from Boston University in 1981, and his Licentiate of Sacred Theology from the Weston Jesuit School of Theology in 1990.
He was assigned to the Harvard-Radcliffe Catholic Student Center in 1990 as well, as chaplain of St. Paul Parish.
Within the Archdiocese of Boston, he was made Director of the Office of Religious Education in 1993 and Secretary for Education in 1995.
On January 27, 2000, Malone was appointed Auxiliary Bishop of Boston and Titular Bishop of Aptuca by Pope John Paul II.
He received his episcopal consecration on March 1, 2001, from Bernard Cardinal Law, with Bishops William Francis Murphy and John Boles serving as co-consecrators.
Malone was later named the eleventh Bishop of Portland in Maine on February 10, 2004, and was formally installed on March 31.
He sits on the Committee for Evangelization of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops and serves as chair-elect of its Committee on Catechesis.
The Bishop has produced and hosted programs for CatholicTV.
The Bishop is also a Fourth Degree member of the Knights of Columbus.
On May 29, 2012, Malone was appointed ordinary of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Buffalo.
He was later appointed apostolic administrator of Portland in Maine until such time as a permanent replacement was installed.
He was installed in Buffalo in a ceremony at St. Joseph Cathedral on Friday, August 10, 2012.
Stoffel Muller (1776 – 3 August 1833) was a Dutchman who led a small Protestant sect in the early nineteenth century.
Known as the Zwijndrechtse nieuwlichters, the sect was later said to have had a communist ideology; it resisted civil government and held property commonly.
Muller was born on 16 February 1776 in Puttershoek.
His father was a sailor and Muller accompanied him frequently; after the death of his father, he worked as a skipper.
He married Helena Groenendijk (died 1853) and had three sons with her.
Muller was raised in a strict religious environment and joined the Protestant church as a member ("lidmaat") in 1793.
According to family lore he fell ill in Emden on one of his journeys and had to stay there a while to convalesce; during that time he came under the influence of the Lutheran Pietism.
He was reputed to have had a religious experience in 1816 during a nightly walk, which was to inform his theology.
Afterward, he became estranged from his family and sought people with a similar religious conviction; he found that in Dirk Valk, a former bailiff from Waddinxveen, and his family and friends.
When Valk lost his position, the two traveled around to find means to support themselves and those attracted to Muller's theology and Valk's reputed belief in the imminent return of Christ.
On one of those trips, when they were investigating a business opportunity in Amsterdam, Muller met Maria Leer of Edam, a prophetess and domestic servant 17 years his junior who had grown up in an orphanage; though he was never legally divorced from his first wife he formed a "spiritual marriage" with Leer in 1817.
That same year, Muller, with Leer and the Valks, formed the congregation (they saw it as a Christelijke Broedergemeente, an "Apostolic Brethren Association" modeled on the early Christians </ref>) which later became known as the Zwijndrechtse nieuwlichters, whose ideals were based on the Sermon on the Mount; later studies proposed that this was a kind of communist ideology held by many Protestant sects of the time.
While Muller was considered the group's leader, he was not formally appointed as such.
He and Leer were arrested for vagrancy in 1820 and served a year in prison.
He died in Varik, on 3 August 1833, on a trip where he was as usual accompanied by Leer, possibly of cholera.
Muller's religious education was rudimentary, yet he managed to build a consistent religious system from his knowledge of the New Testament.
The system was based on Romans 11:36, "For from him and through him and for him are all things".
Stoffel interprets this to mean that everything, including sin, derives from God.
This theology excluded predestination, since that which comes from God and through God and goes toward God can never be lost.
The crucifixion is the single most important act of love, and the Sermon on the Mount provided the necessary guidance for life on earth.
Muller's congregation was to live as the early Christians did, in love and with shared property.
As long as Muller was alive and could enforce his will, the congregation followed those ideals; after his death, it quickly fell apart.
Much of what is known about Muller comes from the (not always reliable) recollections of Maria Leer; in 1860 she had moved to Leiden to live in the Bethlehemshof, where she met the writer Louise Sophie Blussé, who wrote Leer's memoirs and published them in 1892, under the pen name D.N.
Anagrapheus, with a preface by Remonstrant preacher Jan Hendrik Maronier (1827–1920).
Arthur van Schendel's skipper, Wuddink, a character in his novel De Waterman, was based on Muller.
Leer's memoirs were likely the source for van Schendel.
Theism, in the field of comparative religion, is the belief in the existence of deities.
In popular parlance, the term theism often describes the classical conception of god(s) that is found in the monotheistic and polytheistic religions.
The term theism derives from the Greek theos meaning "god".
The term theism was first used by Ralph Cudworth (1617–88).
In Cudworth's definition, they are "strictly and properly called Theists, who affirm, that a perfectly conscious understanding being, or mind, existing of itself from eternity, was the cause of all other things".
Atheism is commonly understood as rejection of theism in the broadest sense of theism; i.e.
the rejection of belief in a god or gods.< </ref> The claim that the existence of any deity is unknown or unknowable is agnosticism.< Monotheism (from Greek ) is the belief in theology that only one deity exists.
Some modern day monotheistic religions include Islam, Judaism, Baha'i Faith, Sikhism, Zoroastrianism, Eckankar and some forms of Hinduism, and Christianity.
Polytheism is the belief that there is more than one deity.
In practice, polytheism is not just the belief that there are multiple gods; it usually includes belief in the existence of a specific pantheon of distinct deities.
Within polytheism there are hard and soft varieties: Polytheism is also divided according to how the individual deities are regarded: </ref> Examples include works of Baruch Spinoza.
Some people find the distinction between these two beliefs as ambiguous and unhelpful, while others see it as a significant point of division.
Pantheism may be understood a type of Nontheism, where the physical universe takes on some of the roles of a theistic God, and other roles of God viewed as unnecessary.
</ref> Deism typically rejects supernatural events (such as prophecies, miracles, and divine revelations) prominent in organized religion.
Instead, Deism holds that religious beliefs must be founded on human reason and observed features of the natural world, and that these sources reveal the existence of a supreme being as creator.
Autotheism is the viewpoint that, whether divinity is also external or not, it is inherently within 'oneself' and that one has a duty to become perfect (or divine).
This can be in a selfless way, a way following the implications of statements attributed to ethical, philosophical, and religious leaders (such as Jesus and Mahavira ).
Autotheism can also refer to the belief that one's self is a deity (often the only one), within the context of subjectivism.
This is a fairly extreme version of subjectivism, however.
Prince Sergei Nikolaevich Troubetzkoy (1863–1905) was a Russian religious philosopher.
He was the son of Prince Nikolai Petrovitch Troubetzkoy, co-founder of the Moscow Conservatory, and Sophia Alekseievna Lopouchina.
His mother was a big influence on his religious thought.
He and his brother, Evgenii Nikolaevitch Troubetzkoy (1863-1920), continued Vladimir Solovyov's work on developing a modern Christian philosophy of the world.
As a teenager S. N. Troubetzkoy was an adherent of the British Positivists, Herbert Spencer and John Stuart Mill.
Later he became disappointed with both and turned to Schopenhauer.
Study of his philosophy led Troubetzkoy to a conclusion that Schopenhauer's pessimism was the result of denial of God.
Troubetzkoy himself described this dilemma the following way: "Either God exists or life is not worth living".
He became an Orthodox Christian, and also an adherent of the Slavophiles: his beliefs at that time were influenced by the writings of Aleksey Khomyakov.
In 1885 Troubetzkoy graduated from Moscow University; but he continued to work there until his death, lecturing in philosophy.
In 1886 he became acquainted with the philosopher Vladimir Solovyov, who held largely the same views about religion as Troubetzkoy and became his close friend.
In 1890 Troubetzkoy became Professor of philosophy in Moscow University.
Later he played a significant role in the Russian liberal movement.
In 1905 he was elected rector of Moscow University; but he died just a month later, of brain hemorrhage.
Nikolai Trubetzkoy, the linguist, was his son.
S. N. Troubetzkoy's brother, Evgenii Nikolaevitch (1863-1920), was also a philosopher and a Professor at Moscow University, who largely shared S. N. Troubetzkoy's beliefs.
Evgenii Troubetzkoy died of typhus in the Crimea while he was trying to emigrate.
Working in the same field as Solovyov, Troubetzkoy sought to establish a philosophic foundation for an Orthodox Christian worldview, which would be equally rooted in faith and reason.
In 1890 he defended his Master's thesis, "Metaphysics in Ancient Greece", in which he argued that the Holy Scripture and Christian theology largely stemmed directly from the idealistic philosophy of ancient Greece.
The religious beliefs of Troubetzkoy are sometimes defined as Christocentrism.
In other words, Christianity and the Church are an incarnation of the personality of Jesus in human society, which convey His teachings to people.
These views are set forth in Troubetzkoy's work, The Teaching on Logos.
Troubetzkoy believed that the personality of Christ, which combined human and divine conscience, was the crucial problem for the understanding of all aspects of the Christianity.
He viewed Christianity not solely as a set of ethical teachings but as one which can be perceived and understood exclusively through special revelation.
His viewpoint differed both from the official doctrine of the Orthodox Church and from the beliefs of liberal intellectuals, who reduced the Christian faith to an egalitarian ethical system.
Al Kresta (born 1951) is a Catholic broadcaster, journalist and author.
A former Evangelical pastor, he is now the President and CEO of Ave Maria Radio, and host of Kresta in the Afternoon, produced by Ave Maria Radio and syndicated on EWTN Global Catholic Radio, heard on more than 250 stations around the United States, Sirius Satellite Radio, and numerous webstreams.
A 1976 honors graduate of Michigan State University, Kresta has done graduate work in theology at Sacred Heart Major Seminary in Detroit and Ashland Theological Seminary.
In 1986, Kresta began pastoring Shalom Ministry in Taylor, MI.
He became well known in the Detroit area for his program, “Talk from the Heart,” one of the top-rated Christian talk shows during the 1980s and 90s on WMUZ.
When he began the program, Al was a Protestant pastor.
The questions forced upon him as pastor, however, led him to return to the Catholic Church.
His profound personal conversion to Christ and return to the Catholic Church is told in the best-selling anthology "Surprised By Truth".
In 1997 Domino’s Pizza founder Tom Monaghan recruited him to launch the media apostolate, Ave Maria Communications.
Over the years, Kresta has engaged in vigorous discussions and debates with many nationally known figures from politics, the arts, the Church, academia, and business.
Kresta has been a guest on BBC Radio and major TV network news affiliates.
His radio work has received mention by Associated Press, “The Washington Times,” “National Catholic Reporter,” “Our Sunday Visitor,” “Envoy,” “Christianity Today,” and numerous metropolitan newspapers.
Kresta's life and spiritual journey took on a new dimension in February 2003, when he lost his left leg to necrotizing fasciitis, an infection often referred to as the "flesh-eating bacteria."
His extended recovery and eventual return to broadcasting have given him new insights into the realities of suffering and hope.
Kresta and his wife, Sally, were married in 1977 and have five children.
Kresta is the author of four books: Kresta is also a contributor to and Loving Your Neighbor (Capital Research Center).
has made the top-10 list of Catholic books compiled by the Catholic Book Publisher’s Association.
It answers more than 50 common questions about Catholic religious beliefs and spiritual practices.
At its release, Kresta explained that the book isn’t intended to be “a definitive work of apologetics.” Rather, it is written in question-and-answer style like “a conversation that would help interested Catholics and non-Catholics better understand why Catholics believe and behave as we do.”
Religious alienation is a term some use to describe how religion creates an impediment to human self-understanding.
Although the roots of alienation lie far back in the Judeo-Christian tradition, the concept of alienation first gained prominence in the philosophy of Hegel, and particularly in his mature writings.
There are signs of the idea in his earlier works, but it is not until the Phenomenology of Spirit (1807) that alienation occupies a central place in his writings.
In the opening sections of the Phenomenology, Hegel attacked the views of common sense and simplified natural science that the world consisted of discrete objects independent of man's consciousness.
Truth, for Hegel, was not to be found in knowledge that was stripped of any influence from man's own desires and feelings.
Ultimately, Hegel considered that there could be no truth that was not intimately linked with the ongoing process of human beings as thinking subjects; truth was their truth.
The supposed objectivity of the world of nature was in fact an alienation, for man's task was to discover, behind these appearances, his own essential life and finally to view everything as a facet of his own self-consciousness.
The same principle applied to the world of culture in which such spheres as art and religion, if viewed as independent of man, constituted so many alienations to be overcome by integration into the final understanding and recapitulation which was Absolute Knowledge.
Hegel had created a system; and all his followers believed that it was the final one.
However, when it came to applying the system to particular problems, they conceived his system to be ambivalent.
The fact that alienation seemed to them to be a challenge, something to be overcome, led them to put the emphasis on the concepts of dialectic and negativity in Hegel's system; and thus they challenged, first in religion and then in politics, his view that the problem of alienation had, at least in principle, been solved.
The foremost among these radical disciples of Hegel, Bruno Bauer, applied the concept of alienation to the religious field.
Bauer, who lectured in theology and made his name as a Gospel critic, considered that religious beliefs, and in particular Christianity, caused a division in man's consciousness by becoming opposed to this consciousness as a separate power.
Thus religion was an attitude towards the essence of self-consciousness that had become estranged from itself.
In this context, Bauer promoted the use of the expression “self-alienation” that soon became current among the Young Hegelians.
For Feuerbach (The Essence of Christianity (1841)), people alienate their essential being by attributing their human qualities to a god who is then worshipped on account of these qualities.
In worshipping god, therefore, people are unconsciously worshipping themselves.
Thus Feuerbach argues that religion is a form of alienation which prevents people from attaining realisation of their own species-being.
Feuerbach’s thinking has been described as humanist in that his theory of alienation is based on a theory of human nature as species-being, as innate to the human species.
This position would later be examined by Karl Marx in his "Theses on Feuerbach".
Mahmoud Hamdi Zakzouk (born 27 December 1933) is an Egyptian academic and politician.
He is the Egypt's former minister of religious endowment which he held from 1995 to 2011.
Zakzouk was born in Dakahlia on 27 December 1933.
He obtained bachelor's degree and master's degree from Al Azhar University.
He received a PhD in philosophy from Munich University in 1968.
His PhD thesis was a comparison of the philosophical approach of Descartes and Al-Ghazali.
Zakzouk is a professor of philosophy and teaches philosophy at his alma mater, Al Azhar University.
He joined the university in 1968.
From 1972 to 1976 he was visiting professor in Libya and from 1980 to 1984 in Qatar.
He served as the dean of the Islamic Theology Faculty at Al Azhar from 1987 to 1995.
He was appointed minister of religious endowments (awqaf) in 1995 and was in office until the Revolution of 2011 when he was removed.
He served as head of the Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs to which he was appointed in 1996.
He has held the following posts: vice president of Al Azhar University (1995), member of the Islamic Research Academy, member of the European Academy of Sciences and Arts in Salzburg and head of the Egyptian Society of Philosophy.
Zakzouk argued in 2006 that "Bahaism is “not a revealed religion” for Muslims and thus not subject to special protection in Egypt."
He also publicly claimed that capital punishment for converts, more specifically those Muslim-born persons who convert to other religious beliefs, is legal.
Zakzouk frowned on the use of the niqab.
He expelled an employee (a counsellor) wearing the niqab from a meeting at his ministry, and stated "the religious counsellor should set an example of moderation.
By wearing the niqab, this female counsellor promotes a tradition not demanded by Islam".
Zakzouk is married and has one child.
He is the recipient of the 1997 Egyptian State Prize for Social Sciences.
Zakzouk has published many scientific articles and books, including On Philosophy Culture and Peace in Islam, On the Role of Islam in the Development of Philosophical Thought (1989), Al Ghazalis Philosophie im Vergleich mit Descartes (Comparison of Al Ghazali's Philosophy with that of Descartes, 1992), Fragen zum Thema Islam (Questions on Islam, 1999) and Einführung in den Islam (Introduction to Islam, 2000).
He also contributed to The End of Tolerance?
which was published in 2002.
The book focuses on interfaith origins of tolerance.
Ramchandrapur is one of the largest villages in the Lakhisarai district in the Indian state of Bihar.
It is 11.4&nbsp;km from the administrative district headquarters in Lakhisarai town and 117&nbsp;km from the state capital, Patna.Ramchandrapur currently has a population of 15,000 people and is well-connected to its surroundings, both by road and railway links.
The village is named after the God "Ramchandrapur".
The village includes schools, colleges and other educational institutions.
Agriculture is the main occupation, with a majority of the population engaged in cultivating crops such as paddy, wheat, onions, potatoes and mangoes.
Ramchandrapur has made Bihar one of the leading states in cattle and goat production.
Other prominent industries include pottery and brick manufacturing.
People living in Ramchandrapur celebrate various religious and social events.
Most of the religious festivals attract pilgrims from across India.
Some are among the non-religious festivals that celebrate regional culture.
Many local festivals celebrate the locals' lifestyle, such as those related to the change of seasons and the harvest.
The most prominent fairs and festivals include the Chhath Fasting, Durga Puja, Makar Sankranti Nag Panchami and Holi.
<gallery> File:Aulia Baba.jpg|Aulia Baba </gallery>
The people of Dandoka live a traditional rural life, dominated by Pakhtoon culture.
Religious festivals like Eid ul Fitar, Eid ul Azhaa and Eid e Melaad are celebrated with religious zeal and passion.
Other festivals and ceremonies like marriages, engagements, etc.
are also celebrated with traditional pomp and show, complete with drumming traditional to this area.
Education is low as the majority of the peoples are poor and cannot afford the education expenses of their children.
About 33% of the total village population is literate, although this is increasing.
Agriculture is the primary industry in the area, and the major crops are wheat, tobacco, maize, sunflowers, rice sugar cane, mustard, potatoes and other vegetables.
Many residents are affiliated with the Awami National Party.
Religious festivals such as Eid ul Fitar, Eid ul Azhaa and Eid e Melaad, Ramadan Mubarak are celebrated with religious zeal and passion.
Other festivals and ceremonies such as marriages or engagements are celebrated with traditional pomp and show.
Volleyball and cricket are the dominating games played in this village.
Many young boys go on to play volleyball for various teams like Pakistan Army, etc.
Elders like to play cards in their local gathering houses, "Hujra".
Prof. Syed Ali Abbas Jalalpuri was a professor of philosophy in Government College Lahore.
He is regarded by the intellectuals of Pakistan as the Will Durant of Pakistan.
He had master's degrees in Philosophy, Persian and Urdu.
He wrote more than fourteen books on Philosophy, History, and Religion in Urdu language.
He was known as a first-rate scholar, and his books seemed to herald an age of reason in Pakistan.
His opinions on the subjects of history, civilization, religion, philosophy, metaphysics, folklore are held in great esteem.
In his greatest work, Riwayat-e-Falsafa (Story of Philosophy), he tried to educate a common Urdu reader on the subject of Philosophy.
This book served its purpose in popularizing the subject it discussed like Will Durant's The Story of Philosophy.
Like The Dictionnaire Historique et Critique of Pierre Bayle and The Philosophical Dictionary of Voltaire, he wrote a philosophical dictionary, 'Khird Nama Jalalpuri' to explain subject's terminologies in Urdu.
He also wrote “Jinsiyati Mutaley” (A Study of Sex), which presented a great research work on the subject in Urdu language.
Wahdatul Wujud tey Punjabi Sha'eri (Pantheism and Punjabi Poetry) Iqbal Ka Ilm-e-Kalam (The Theology of Allama Muhammad Iqbal Maqamat-e-Waris Shah (Places of Waris) Shah) Ruh-e-Asar ( Zeit Geist or The Spirit of the Age) Aam Fikri Mughaltay (Common Intellectual Errors) Tareekh Ka Naya Mor (The New Turn of History) Rasoom Aqwam (The Cultures of Nations) Jinsiyati Mutaley (Studies in Sex).
10 Kianat aur Insan (Universe and Man) 11 Riwayat-e-Tamadan Qadeem (Story of Ancient Civilizations) 12 Khird Nama Jalalpuri ( Jalalpuri Dictionary) 13 Maqalat Jallapuri (Essays by Jalalpuri) 14 Sibd Gulchainh (A collection of poetry).
"Ali Abbas Jalalpuri was a very rigorous historian of Philosophy and Epistemology.
As the dominant mode of Philosophy in Indian Subcontinent has been “Analytical” I include him in the first trend as well.
He is amongst first of the Modern Pakistani academics who took interest in the “Question of Civilization”, “History of Ideas” and “Academic Clarity”, “Relationship of Metaphysics, Language and Folklore”, the questions which would eventually become most important issues for European Philosopher especially after “Structuralist” revolution in Paris.
Jalalpuri was aware of the inconsistencies and contradictions in explaining Iqbal when subjected to traditional Analytical Model of Philosophy.
Where to place Iqbal in the Web of Modern Philosophical Ideas?” was the question he faced and he thought he had theperfect solution.
Instead of trying to put Iqbal in the Project of Modernity and face the problem of Contradiction, Jalalpuri placed Iqbal in the in traditional Islamic Philosophers or the “Kalamist”.
So the “Paradox” is “Avoided”, Instead of Philosopher, Iqbal is a “Schoolmen” trying to complete “Islamic Scholasticism” after Ghezali.
Jalalpuri is rigorous in his work.
due to non existent academy, the trend ended with him.
“Completing Islamic Scholasticism” is certainly a part of Iqbal’s work, but it’s a Part, not the whole."
"In 1971, Ali Abbas Jalalpuri wrote a very comprehensive critique of Iqbāl’s theology of modernity.
He faults Iqbāl for selective and arbitrary interpretation of the Qur’ānic verses.
To him, ambivalence towards pantheism and Ibn Arabi (d. 1240) at some places, his devotion to the pantheist Rumi, and his idea of Absolute Ego make it clear that Iqbāl’s theology has deep roots in pantheism."
IQBĀL’S APPROACH TO ISLAMIC THEOLOGY Of MODERNITY, KHALID MASUD <br /> 2.
Letting the Mask Slip, Ghazi Salahuddin
Open-source religions employ open-source methods for the sharing, construction, and adaptation of religious belief systems, content, and practice.
In comparison to religions utilizing proprietary, authoritarian, hierarchical, and change-resistant structures, open-source religions emphasize sharing in a cultural Commons, participation, self-determination, decentralization, and evolution.
They apply principles used in organizing communities developing open-source software for organizing group efforts innovating with human culture.
New open-source religions may develop their systems of beliefs through a continuous process of refinement and dialogue among participating practitioners.
Organizers and participants often see themselves as part of a more generalized open-source and free-culture movement.
In 1994, with his essay, "The Holy War: Mac vs. DOS," the scholar and novelist Umberto Eco popularized the use of religious metaphors in comparing operating system design and user experience.
By the late 1990s, the term "open-source religion" began appearing in technology magazines as a reference to the open-source Linux operating system's organizing principle and as an analogy for highlighting the philosophical differences between advocates of open-source vs. proprietary software .
In 2001, Daniel Kriegman began describing a religion he invented called Ozacua (later Yoism) as "the world's first opensource religion."
The concept of an "open source religion" was further expanded upon by the media theorist, Douglas Rushkoff in his book, Nothing's Sacred: The Truth about Judaism (2003), where he offered the following description as an introduction to Open Source Judaism: Before the coinage of the term open-source in 1998 or even the birth of the Free Software movement, the Principia Discordia (1963), a Discordian religious text written by Greg Hill with Kerry Wendell Thornley, included the following Copyright disclaimer, "Ⓚ All Rites Reversed – reprint what you like."
By 1970, the implications of the disclaimer were being discussed in other underground publications.
By the mid-1970s, the concept had influenced a generation of Discordians.
The project to create Tiny BASIC was proposed in Bob Albrecht and Dennis Allison's Dr. Dobb's Journal of Tiny BASIC Calisthenics & Orthodontia, a journal of the Homebrew Computer Club, a small group of computer hobbyists who began meeting in 1975 around Silicon Valley.
The first lines of the source code for Tiny Basic as released in 1976 by Li-Chen Wang stated ‘(ↄ) COPYLEFT ALL WRONGS RESERVED’.
In 1984/5 programmer Don Hopkins sent Richard Stallman a letter labeled "Copyleft—all rights reversed".
Stallman chose the phrase to identify his free software method of distribution.
The relationship between Discordianism and "Kopyleft" remain part of the culture of Discordianism, as explained by the Discordian Rev.
Dr. Jon Swabey in his Apocrypha Discordia.
For established traditions whose canonical works, records of discourse, and inspired artworks reside in the Public Domain, keeping these works open and available in the face of proprietary interests has inspired several open-source initiatives.
Open access to resources and adaptive reuse of shared materials under Open Content licensing provide a structure by which communities can innovate new religious systems collaboratively under the aegis of copyright law.
For some religious movements, however, public access and literacy, and the potential of adaptive reuse also provide an opportunity for innovation and reform within established traditions.
In an interview by A. J. Jacobs in the Atlantic Magazine on open-source religion, Aharon Varady (founding director of the Open Siddur Project) explained that "cultures breathe creativity like we breathe oxygen" arguing that open-source provides one possible strategy for keeping a tradition vibrant while also preserving historical works as non-proprietary during a period of transition from analog to digital media.
Early open-source efforts in Judaism can be traced back to 1988 with the free software code written for calculating the Hebrew calendar included in Emacs.
After the popularization of the term "open-source" in 1998, essays and manifestos linking open-source and Judaism began appearing in 2002 among Jewish thinkers familiar with trends in new media and open-source software.
In August 2002, Aharon Varady proposed the formation of an "Open Siddur," an open-source licensed user-generated content project for digitizing liturgical materials and writing the code needed for the web-to-print publishing of Siddurim (Jewish prayer books).
Meanwhile, media theorist Douglas Rushkoff began articulating his understanding of open-source in Judaism.
"The object of the game, for me," Rushkoff explained, "was to recontextualize Judaism as an entirely Open Source proposition."
The term "Open Source Judaism" first appeared in Douglas Rushkoff's book Nothing Sacred: The Truth about Judaism (2003).
Rushkoff employed the term "Open Source" to describe a democratic organizational model for collaborating in a commonly held source: the Hebrew Bible and other essential works of Rabbinic Judaism.
Rushkoff conceived of Judaism as essentially an open-source religion which he conceived as, "the contention that religion is not a pre-existing truth but an ongoing project.
It may be divinely inspired, but it is a creation of human beings working together.
For Rushkoff, open-source offered the promise of enacting change through a new culture of collaboration and improved access to sources.
"Anyone who wants to do Judaism should have access to Judaism.
Judaism is not just something that you do, it's something you enact.
You've got to learn the code in order to alter it."
The 2003 publication of Rushkoff's book Nothing Sacred: The Truth about Judaism and an online forum dedicated to "Open Source Judaism" inspired several online projects in creating web applications for generating custom made haggadot for Passover, however neither content nor code for these were shared under free-culture compatible Open Content terms.
Beginning with the Open Siddur Project in 2009, open-source projects in Judaism began to publicly share their software code with open-source licenses and their content with free-culture compatible Open Content licenses.
The explicit objectives of these projects also began to differ from Rushkoff's "Open Source Judaism."
Rather than seek reforms in religious practices or doctrines, these projects used Open Content licenses to empower users to access and create their own resources from a common store of canonical texts and associated translations and metadata.
By 2012, open-source projects in Judaism were mainly active in facilitating collaboration in sharing resources for transcribing and translating existing works in the Public Domain, and for adaptation and dissemination of works being shared by copyright owners under Open Content licenses.
Following proprietary claims on Yoga movements by some Yoga instructors, Open Source Yoga Unity was formed in 2003 to assert that Yoga movements reside in the Public Domain.
The organization provides a common voice, and the pooling of resources, to legally resist the application of a proprietary Copyright to any Yoga style thereby "ensuring its continued natural unfettered practice for all to enjoy and develop."
The organization explains, that "while we appreciate the teachings of yoga teachers, we do not believe that they have the legal right to impose control over another's Yoga teaching or practice."
In Open Source Yoga Unity v. Bikram Choudhury (2005), the organization settled out of court, avoiding a federal court hearing to determine whether Bikram Choudhury’s copyrighted sequence of 26 poses and two breathing exercises could be legally protected.
Concerned with the lack of a source text containing documentation on Wicca in the tradition of Gerald Gardner, Dr. Leo Ruickbie self-published Open Source Wicca: The Gardnerian Tradition (2007) for "putting you back in control of spirituality."
The work, a collection of "the original foundation documents of Wicca" authored between 1949 and 1961, was published digitally and in print under a Creative Commons Attribution license.
Several projects aiding individuals and communities in formulating their own belief systems cite inspiration from ideas common to the open-source movement and self-identify as open-source religions or religious initiatives.
The establishment of new religions through open-source methods is closely related to chaos magic, which emphasizes the pragmatic use of belief systems and the creation of new and unorthodox methods, the difference being that any knowledge gained through such innovation is shared openly.
According to its founder, Daniel Kriegman, Yoism (founded 1994) combines rational inquiry, empiricism, and science with Spinozan or Einsteinian pantheism.
</ref> Inspired by the Linux operating system, Kriegman describes his religion as "open-source" and explains that, similar to open-source software projects, participants in Yoism do not owe their allegiance to any leader and that their sense of authority emerges via group consensus decision-making.
Yoism adopted the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike copyleft license for sharing original works in May 2015.
The Belief Genome Project aims to use crowdsourcing to catalog all beliefs as a resource for those wishing to build and discover their own belief system.
The project is an initiative of the Open Source Religion Social Network, a website established in 2009 by Sidian M.S.
Jones which he described as "a system for the mixing of religious and non-religious beliefs in an individual, even across multiple religions."
Zlatko Ugljen (born September 13, 1929) is a Bosnian architect.
He was born in Mostar in 1929.
His works include economic buildings, private housing, memorials, religious buildings and cultural institutions.
His hotels consist of "Ruža" in Mostar, "Bregava" in Stolac, "Kalin" in Bugojno, "Visoko" in Visoko, "Vučko" in Jahorina, the Bosnian National Theatre Zenica, series of individual houses, mountain huts, etc.
Zlatko Ugljen also designed monuments, and a significant part of his oeuvre consists of Islamic and Catholic religious buildings.
Among his most religious buildings are the White Mosque in Visoko from 1980 for which he received the Aga Khan Award for Architecture in 1983.
Rendezvous with God is a 2012 book compiled by Shreeja Mohatta Jhawar and Abhilasha Agarwal.
It's a collection of interviews with 43 Indian people from different walks of life who share their religious beliefs and experiences of God.
The people interviewed include fashion designer Abhishek Dutta, tabla player Bickram Ghosh, musician Shankar Mahadevan, industrialist Sandeep Bhutoria, politician Abhishek Manu Singhvi, composer Salim Merchant, designer Prasad Bidapa, dance teacher Sandip Soparkar and actress Rupa Ganguly.
The Irmandade Beneficente Natureza Divina is a religious, philanthropic and cultural institution, which acts as a not-for-profit organization according to Brazilian law.
Its objective is to develop moral, intellectual and spiritual virtues in people, regardless of race, gender, political ideology, religious beliefs or level of education.
Members of the organization use the sacred drink Ayahuasca in an attempt to attain inner balance, spiritual betterment and a direct connection with God.
Andrew Lawrence Rippin, (born 16 May 1950 in London, England) is a Canadian scholar of Islam.
Rippin is a former Professor of History and Dean of the Faculty of Humanities at the University of Victoria, British Columbia, Canada.
He is the author of many works on the Qur'an and its interpretation, as well as the widely respected Muslims - Their Religious Beliefs and Practices, now in its third edition (2005).
In 2006, he was made a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada.
Pharmacists for Life International (PFLI) is an international pro-life organization advocating the rights of pharmacists who refuse to fill or dispense prescriptions for artificial, hormonal, or emergency contraception to "protect the rights of employees who hold religious beliefs".
PFLI holds that no "employee should be forced to choose between their livelihood and their conscience".
At least six states have such conscience clauses for personnel in medical-related fields.
The main religion of Puntland is Islam.
All the inhabitants of the region are Sunni Muslims.
Puntland's state constitution states that "Islam shall be the only religion of Puntland State of Somalia.
No any other religion can be propagated in Puntland State, while the Islamic Religion and the traditions of the people of Puntland are the bases of law."
Also, Muslims in Puntland are not allowed to renounce their religion.
Furthermore, the constitution of Puntland restricts the formation of political parties based on a particular faith, religious beliefs, or interpretations of religious doctrine.
The Church of the White Bird (or Shiri Chena Church) was a Christian church in eastern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) that combined Christian religious beliefs with traditional Shona symbolism.
The Church of the White Bird was founded by Matthew Chigaga Zwimba, the son of a government-appointed chief of the Zwimba Reserve.
After years of difficulty with the white authorities (including being dismissed as a teacher in 1907), Zwimba founded the church in 1915 by physically occupying the existing Methodist station.
The Church of the White Bird was the first of a number of independent Shona churches.
Hawaiian religion encompasses the indigenous religious beliefs and practices of the Native Hawaiians.
It is polytheistic and animistic, with a belief in many deities and spirits, including the belief that spirits are found in non-human beings and objects such as animals, the waves, and the sky.
Hawaiian religion originated among the Tahitians and other Pacific islanders who landed in Hawai i between 500 and 1300 AD.
Today, Hawaiian religious practices are protected by the American Indian Religious Freedom Act.
Traditional Hawaiian religion is unrelated to the modern New Age practice known as "Huna."
Hawaiian religion is polytheistic, with four deities most prominent: Kāne, Kū, Lono and Kanaloa.
Other notable deities include Laka, Kihawahine, Haumea, Papahānaumoku, and, most famously, Pele.
In addition, each family is considered to have one or more family guardians known as ʻaumakua.
One breakdown of the Hawaiian pantheon consists of the following groups: Another breakdown consists of three major groups: One Hawaiian creation myth is embodied in the Kumulipo, an epic chant linking the ali i, or Hawaiian royalty, to the gods.
The Kumulipo is divided into two sections: night, or pō, and day, or ao, with the former corresponding to divinity and the latter corresponding to mankind.
After the birth of La ila i, the woman, and Ki i, the man, the man succeeds at seducing and reproducing with the woman before the god Kāne has a chance, thereby making the divine lineage of the gods younger than and thus subservient to the lineage of man.
This, in turn, illustrates the transition of mankind from being symbols for the gods (the literal meaning of ki i) into the keeper of these symbols in the form of idols and the like.
The Kumulipo was recited during the time of Makahiki, to honor the god of fertility, Lono.
The kahuna were well respected, educated individuals that made up a social hierarchy class that served the King and the Courtiers and assisted the Maka'ainana (Common People).
Selected to serve many practical and governmental purposes, Kahuna often were healers, navigators, builders, prophets/temple workers, and philosophers.
They also talked with the spirits.
Kahuna Kūpa iulu of Maui in 1867 described a counter-sorcery ritual to heal someone ill due to ho opi opi o, another’s evil thoughts.
He said a kapa (cloth) was shaken.
Then, "If the evil spirit suddenly appears (puoho) and possesses the patient, then he or she can be immediately saved by the conversation between the practitioner and that spirit."
Pukui and others believed kahuna did not have mystical transcendent experiences as described in other religions.
Although a person who was possessed (noho) would go into a trance-like state, it was not an ecstatic experience but simply a communion with the known spirits.
Kapu refers to a system of taboos designed to separate the spiritually pure from the potentially unclean.
Thought to have arrived with Pā ao, a priest or chief from Tahiti who arrived in Hawai i sometime around 1200 AD, the kapu imposed a series of restrictions on daily life.
Hawaiian tradition shows that Aikapu was an idea led by the kahuna in order for Wākea, the sky father, to get alone with his daughter, Ho ohokukalani without his wahine, or wife, Papa, the earth mother, noticing.
The spiritually pure or la a, meaning "sacred" and unclean or haumia were to be separated.
(Honolulu: Bishop Museum Press, 1951)</ref> Other Kapus included Mālama Āina, meaning "caring of the land" and Ni aupi o.
Tradition says that mālama āina originated from the first child of Wākea and Ho ohokukalani being deformed so they buried him in the ground and what sprouted became the first kalo, also known as taro.
The Hawaiian islands are all children of Papa, Wākea and Ho ohokukalani so basically meaning that they are older siblings of the Hawaiian chiefs.
Second child of Wākea and Ho ohokukalani became the first Ali i Nui, or "Grand Chief".
This came to be called Ni aupi o, the chiefly incest to create the "godly child".
Punishments for breaking the kapu could include death, although if one could escape to a pu uhonua, a city of refuge, one could be saved.
Kāhuna nui mandated long periods when the entire village must have absolute silence.
No baby could cry, dog howl, or rooster crow, on pain of death.
Human sacrifice was not unknown.
The kapu system remained in place until 1819 (see below).
Prayer was an essential part of Hawaiian life, employed when building a house, making a canoe, and giving lomilomi massage.
Hawaiians addressed prayers to various gods depending on the situation.
When healers picked herbs for medicine, they usually prayed to Kū and Hina, male and female, right and left, upright and supine.
The people worshiped Lono during Makahiki season and Kū during times of war.
Histories from the 19th century describe prayer throughout the day, with specific prayers associated with mundane activities such as sleeping, eating, drinking, and traveling.
However, it has been suggested that the activity of prayer differed from the subservient styles of prayer often seen in the Western world: Heiau, served as focal points for prayer in Hawai i.
Offerings, sacrifices, and prayers were offered at these temples, the thousands of ko a (shrines), a multitude of wahi pana (sacred places), and at small kuahu (altars) in individual homes.
Although it is unclear when settlers first came to the Hawaiian Islands, there is significant evidence that the islands were settled no later than 800 AD and immigration continued to about 1300 AD.
Settlers came from the Marquesas, Samoa, Easter Island, and greater Polynesia.
At some point, a significant influx of Tahitian settlers landed in the Hawaiian islands, bringing with them their religious beliefs.
Early Hawaiian religion resembled other Polynesian religions in that it was largely focused on natural forces such as the tides, the sky, and volcanic activity as well as man's dependence on nature for subsistence.
The major early gods reflected these characteristics, as the early Hawaiians worshiped Kāne (the god of the sky and creation), Kū (the god of war and male pursuits), Lono (the god of peace, rain, and fertility) and Kanaloa (the god of the ocean).
As an indigenous culture, spread among eight islands, with waves of immigration over hundreds of years from various parts of the South Pacific, religious practices evolved over time and from place to place in different ways.
Hawaiian scholar Mary Kawena Pukui, who was raised in Ka‘ū, Hawaii, maintained that the early Hawaiian gods were benign.
One Moloka i tradition follows this line of thought.
Author and researcher Pali Jae Lee writes: "During these ancient times, the only 'religion' was one of family and oneness with all things.
The people were in tune with nature, plants, trees, animals, the ‘āina, and each other.
They respected all things and took care of all things.
"In the dominant current of Western thought there is a fundamental separation between humanity and divinity.
...
In many other cultures, however, such differences between human and divine do not exist.
Some peoples have no concept of a ‘Supreme Being’ or ‘Creator God’ who is by nature ‘other than’ his creation.
They do, however, claim to experience a spirit world in which beings more powerful than they are concerned for them and can be called upon for help."
"Along with ancestors and gods, spirits are part of the family of Hawaiians.
"There are many kinds of spirits that help for good and many that aid in evil.
Some lie and deceive, and some are truthful ...
It is a wonderful thing how the spirits (‘uhane) of the dead and the ‘angels’ (anela) of the ‘aumākua can possess living persons.
Nothing is impossible to god-spirits, akua."
Kamehameha the Great died in 1819.
In the aftermath, two of his wives, Ka ahumanu and Keōpūolani, then the two most powerful people in the kingdom, conferred with the kahuna nui, Hewahewa.
They convinced young Liholiho, Kamehameha II, to overthrow the kapu system.
They ordered the people to burn the wooden statues and tear down the rock temples.
Without the hierarchical system of religion in place, some abandoned the old gods, and others continued with cultural traditions of worshipping them, especially their family ‘aumākua.
Missionaries arrived in 1820, and most of the ali i converted to Christianity, including Ka ahumanu and Keōpūolani, but it took 11 years for Ka ahumanu to proclaim laws against ancient religious practices.
“Worshipping of idols such as sticks, stones, sharks, dead bones, ancient gods and all untrue gods is prohibited.
There is one God alone, Jehovah.
He is the God to worship.
The hula is forbidden, the chant (olioli), the song of pleasure (mele), foul speech, and bathing by women in public places.
The planting of ‘awa is prohibited.
Neither chiefs nor commoners are to drink ‘awa.” Although traditional Hawaiian religion was outlawed, a number of traditions typically associated with it survived by integration, practicing in hiding, or practicing in rural communities in the islands.
Surviving traditions include the worship of family ancestral gods or aumākua, veneration of iwi or bones, and preservation of sacred places or wahi pana.
Hula was outlawed at one time as a religious practice but today is performed in both spiritual and secular contexts.
Traditional beliefs have also played a role in the politics of post-Contact Hawai i.
In the 1970s the Hawaiian religion experienced a resurgence during the Hawaiian Renaissance.
In 1976, the members of a group "Protect Kaho olawe Ohana" filed suit in federal court over the use of Kaho olawe by the United States Navy for target practice.
Charging that the practice disturbed important cultural and religious sites Aluli et al.
V. Brown forced the Navy to survey and protect important sites, perform conservation activities, and allow limited access to the island for religious purposes.
Similarly, outrage over the unearthing of 1,000 graves dating back to 850 AD during the construction of a Ritz-Carlton hotel on Mau i in 1988 resulted in the redesign and relocation of the hotel inland as well as the appointment of the site as a state historic place.
Along with the surviving traditions, some Hawaiians practice Christianized versions of old traditions.
Others practice it as a co-religion.
In the 1930s, non-Hawaiian author Max Freedom Long created a philosophy and practice he called "Huna."
While Long and his successors have misrepresented this invention as a type of ancient, Hawaiian occultism, it is actually a New Age product of cultural misappropriation and fantasy, and not representative of traditional Hawaiian religion.
"Hawaiians, rather than feeling a kind of fusion with a deity, were more apt to receive messages.
Veiled in mysticism, transported via dream or sign or vision, conveyed in allegory though they might be, the message was very often practical advice from those approachable, interested gods, the ‘aumākua."
Hawaiians of old always made decisions with guidance from the spirits and gods.
Kamakau wrote, "The foundation of the knowledge and skill of the kahuna lapa‘au [medical priest] was the god.
It was he who knew without error the treatment; it was he who pointed out the nature of the ailment and the things pertaining to this or that disease of man."
John Papa ‘I‘i noted, "The medical kahunas whom we described did thus: The matter was presented to the gods in the evening, and the next day the method of treatment was studied.
If the case was a good one, the god was consulted to find out whether the treatment would be successful."
"For the worshipers of the gods of old Hawaii who see manifestations of the gods wherever they look, prayer may be as frequent as conversations between two close friends.
Overwhelming in number, the gods are not kept at a distance by their perfection, but are direct ancestors of the chiefs who in turn are the progenitors of the maka‘āinana, or common people.
The power of the gods comes from generations of accumulated mana.
"the gods of Hawaii are approached with just requests for help as members of the family.
They may be ordered, bargained with, or threatened.
If a particular god does not produce the desired results, the dissatisfied supplicant can denounce the failure, scold the unresponsive god, and seek help elsewhere."
"The haka [medium] was chosen by the spirit, or spirits, to serve as "speaking mouth."
The spirit, be it ‘uhane, ‘aumakua, or akua, was, in family seances, always one to whose lineage the haka belonged: that is to say, the spirit was a relative.
It is said that in the old days there was no lineage, or ‘ohana, which did not have someone who served as a channel of communication."
Syntheism is a new religious movement focused on how atheists and pantheists can achieve the same feelings of community and awe experienced in traditional theistic religions.
The Syntheist Movement sees itself as the practical realisation of a philosophical ambition for a new religion dating back as far as Baruch Spinoza's pantheism in the 17th century and, most directly, British-American philosopher Alfred North Whitehead's pioneering work towards a process theology in his books Religion in the Making in 1926 and Process and Reality in 1929.
Syntheism may also be viewed as a response to the lack of atheistic and pantheistic belief systems in Western cultures, while being more abundant in Eastern cultures, for example as Zen Buddhism, Dzogchen Buddhism, Advaita Vedanta Hinduism, Zoroastrianism and Jainism.
Syntheism comes from the Greek syntheos (from syn- for with or creating with and -theos for god).
It implies that the proper approach to the concept of God is that humanity has created, creates or will eventually create God – as opposed to the traditional monotheistic view that God created the world and humanity.
Besides the activism of The Syntheist Movement, a syntheistic approach to philosophy and religion has also been advocated by American philosopher Ray Kurzweil in his concept of the forthcoming Singularity.
It is also supported by French philosopher Quentin Meillassoux in his idea of "God is a concept far too important to leave to the religious" in his book After Finitude.
Syntheism has an international Facebook community with over 1,500 members.
Its website hosts a blog, holy festival information, and links to media and other resources.
A Swedish community of over 700 members has held several local events.
Spiritual naturalism is considered to be an American version of Syntheism.
American theoretical biologist and complexity theorist Stuart Kauffman published a syntheist manifesto called Reinventing The Sacred in 2010.
In it, he calls for an emergentism beyond traditional scientific reductionism towards a new syntheist spirituality.
American philosopher and neuroscientist Sam Harris published Waking Up: A Guide to Spirituality Without Religion in 2014.
In this book, Harris promotes a syntheistic, post-atheist spirituality beyond traditional religion, especially beyond the Abrahamic faiths, inspired by Buddhism and the Indian philosophical school of Advaita Vedanta.
Harris advocates the search for a love and happiness that transcends cause and effect - which he claims to have found in deep meditation and during psychedelic experiences - while entirely set within a monist and immanent universe.
Both Kauffman and Harris are widely quoted as inspirations for the foundation of The Syntheist Movement.
American philosopher and theologian Robert Corrington has advocated a syntheistic approach he refers to as ecstatic naturalism to religion and spirituality in a series of books, including Nature's Sublime: An Essay in Aesthetic Naturalism, Nature and Spirit: An Essay in Ecstatic Naturalism and A Semiotic Theory of Theology and Philosophy.
British political philosopher Simon Critchley calls for syntheist subtraction (a position he refers to as mystical anarchism) as the proper response to the call for a revolutionary radicality in his book The Faith of The Faithless: Experiments in Political Theology.
When Swedish cyberphilosophers Alexander Bard and Jan Söderqvist published their syntheist manifesto Syntheism - Creating God in the Internet Age in October 2014, it became the first book to actively use the term Syntheism in its title.
Bard & Söderqvist frequently quote Kauffman, Harris, Corrington and Critchley in the book, but also find inspiration for a syntheist worldview from a variety of contemporary phenomena such as digitalisation, globalisation, participatory culture, psychedelic practices, quantum physics and the science of cosmology.
Swiss-British philosopher Alain de Botton has advocated a syntheistic approach towards an atheist religion both in his book Religion for Atheists and his TED talk Atheism 2.0.
American philosopher Daniel Colucciello Barber explores the potential for a syntheistic, post-secular spirituality of immanence rather than transcendence, inspired by French philosopher Gilles Deleuze, in his book Deleuze and the Naming of God.
Among the most quoted inspirations for Syntheism are the writings on a future atheology by French surrealist philosopher Georges Bataille in the 1950s.
Syntheism is the belief that the classic division between theism and atheism in theology has become redundant and must be overcome to fulfill contemporary and future spiritual needs.
This requires the acknowledgement that all metaphysical beliefs center on a divinity or focal point which is man-made.
Therefore, all current and future religious beliefs are created by humans, as well as systems such as Individualism developed by philosophers like René Descartes and Immanuel Kant).
Despite being human creations, what is important is that these beliefs strengthen, and not contradict, science.
They must therefore be developed within a monist worldview (the conviction that there is one world and one world only, and that everything within this one world can affect everything else).
In a more poetic vein, Bataille describes his atheology as “the art of non-knowledge”.
He rather advocates a syntheist religion without a core set of beliefs.
Participatory festivals with utopian themes such as Burning Man are considered examples of syntheistic practice.
Lack of central leadership and core beliefs have led some scholars, such as Dr. Stephen O'Leary, to believe Syntheism will fail.
The idea has also been criticised for a potential lack of mystery.
The Calvin Auditorium or Calvin Auditory (French Auditoire de Calvin), originally the Notre-Dame-la-Neuve Chapel, is a chapel in Geneva, Switzerland, which played a significant role in the Protestant Reformation.
It is associated with John Calvin, Theodore Beza and John Knox.
The auditorium lies directly adjacent to St. Pierre Cathedral in the Place de la Taconnerie.
The austere Gothic-style building was constructed in the 15th century, on the site of earlier 5th-century religious buildings, and was originally dedicated to Notre-Dame-la-Neuve.
From 1536, the time of Geneva's Reformation, it became a lecture hall where Calvin actively expounded his reformed theology: Bible studies were conducted here at 7:00 each morning.
In 1559, it served as the original home of the University of Geneva.
Once Geneva accepted the Reformation, it became a haven for Protestant refugees from all over Europe, and Calvin gave this building over for them to worship in their own language.
It was also used by the Scottish reformer John Knox, during his exile in Geneva in the 1550s.
Here he ministered to an English-speaking refugee congregation and developed many of the ideas that were to be influential in the Scottish Reformation.
Subsequently, it became a place used by numerous Protestant refugee groups including Italian Waldensians, Dutch Reformed and Scottish Presbyterians.
It is viewed by many Reformed churches throughout the world as a crucible of their faith.
Over the years, the building deteriorated.
In 1954, the World Alliance of Reformed Churches reached an agreement with the National Protestant Church of Geneva and launched a programme to restore the auditorium, which was completed in 1959.
Today, following in the tradition established by Calvin, the Auditoire is still used for worship in languages other than French.
It hosts congregations of the Dutch Reformed Church and Italian Reformed Church, as well as being used by a congregation of the Church of Scotland as its main place of worship every Sunday.
Buschhoven is a farming village 10 kilometres west of Bonn, Germany.
It is part of the municipality Swisttal.
It is surrounded by fields and various farms, with good transport links to the nearby main cities of Bonn and Cologne.
There are seasonal carnevals in the area and religious festivals where the streets are decorated- it is known for its historic community feel.
Hindu Sanskar Radio (also known as Asian Plus on DAB Digital Radio) is a Hindu teachings based radio station broadcast from Leicester.
It is run by volunteers and the local Hindu temples.
It transmits on DAB Digital Radio and from its website.
During Hindu religious festivals, it also transmits on analogue radio.
Serpent seed, dual seed or two-seedline is a controversial religious belief, which explains the biblical account of the fall of man by saying that the serpent in the Garden of Eden mated with Eve, and the offspring of their union was Cain.
This appears in early Gnostic writings such as the Gospel of Philip (c. 350).
This teaching was explicitly rejected as heresy by Irenaeus (c. 180) and later mainstream Christian theologians.
A similar idea appeared in Jewish midrashic texts in the 9th century and in the Kabbalah.
It is considered heresy by the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox churches, and by most Protestants.
Notable proponents have included Daniel Parker (1781–1844), William M. Branham (1909–1965), </ref> and Arnold Murray (1929–2014).
This belief is also held by some adherents of the white supremacist theology known as Christian Identity, who claim that the Jews are descended from the serpent.
The idea that Eve mated with the serpent, or with Satan, to produce Cain, has been taught in various forms for thousands of years, and it finds its earliest expression in Gnostic writings (e.g., the Gospel of Philip) and especially in Manichaean doctrines; however, it was rejected by mainstream Christian theologians such as Irenaeus.
The idea appears in a 9th-century book called Pirke De-Rabbi Eliezer.
In his book Cain: Son of the Serpent, David Max Eichhorn, traces the idea back to early Jewish Midrashic texts and identifies many rabbis who taught that Cain was the son of the union between the serpent and Eve.
Some Kabbalist rabbis also believe that Cain and Abel were of a different background than Seth.
This is known among Kabbalists as "The Theory of Origins".
Daniel Parker (1781–1844) was an early American leader in the Primitive Baptist Church in the Southern United States and the founder of numerous churches.
As an elder, Parker led a group who separated from that church and formed the Two-Seed-in-the-Spirit Predestinarian Baptists.
William M. Branham (1909-1965) taught that Eve and the serpent had sexual intercourse and Cain was born.
Consequently, every woman potentially carried the literal seed of the devil.
Cain's descendants were today masquerading as the educated and the scientists, who were "a big religious bunch of illegitimate bastard children."
The serpent was the "missing link" between the chimpanzee and man, who was perhaps ten feet tall and looked just like a man.
The central sins of modern culture - immoral women and education - were a result of the serpent's seed.
Branham's attitude toward culture was a very extremist perspective of "Christ against Culture".
Education was Satan's snare for intellectual Christians who rejected the supernatural.
Education was Satan's tool for obscuring the "simplicity" of the messenger and his message (i.e.
William Branham and his message).
Arnold Murray (1929–2014), founder of The Shepherd's Chapel, taught the serpent seed doctrine.
He accepted that the Jews (Kingdom of Judah) were descended from Adam through Seth, as described in the Bible.
However, his view was that the Kenites (rather than the Jews) were the offspring of Cain, and infiltrated the northern kingdom of Israel.
Murray's teachings are disputed by Protestant apologetics ministries CARM and CRI.
Adherents of the white supremacist theology known as Two-Seedline Christian Identity hold that white people are descendants of Adam and are hence the chosen people of God.
The Jewish people are said to be descendants of Cain and thus of Satan.
This belief was developed by Wesley A.
Swift, Conrad Gaard, Dan Gayman and William Potter Gale among others.
The opposing faction is called One-Seedline Christian Identity and it holds that all people are descended from Adam, but only Aryans (here meaning Northern Europeans) are truly God's people.
There are multiple definitions of social equity as it is a new term; each industry has seemed to take on a different connotation.
The following provides for examples of each connotation.
Social equity is the orphaned element of sustainable development.
In 1996 the United States President's Council on Sustainable Development defined social equity as "equal opportunity, in a safe and healthy environment."
Social equity is the least defined and least understood element of the triad that is sustainable development yet is integral in creating sustainability - balancing economic, environmental and social equity.
Many colleges and universities consider the term social equity as synonymous with social equality.
Examples include Shippensburg University, Slippery Rock University of Pennsylvania, Arizona State College of Public Programs, Indiana University of Pennsylvania and North Carolina State University, among others.
In terms of conservation, "Social Equity implies fair access to livelihood, education, and resources; full participation in the political and cultural life of the Community; and self-determination in meeting Fundamental Needs.
As Martin Luther King observed, "where there is injustice for one, there is injustice for all."
Social Equity is the cornerstone of Social Capital, which cannot be maintained for a few at the expense of the many.
Increased equity results in decreased spending on prisons, security enforcement, welfare, and social services.
It also creates new potential markets."
"Social equity includes universal fulfillment of the most fundamental human needs along with broad access to meaningful work, while respecting the enormous range of life circumstances and personal goals which may drive people to seek different kinds of livelihood."
Social equity is the perceived value of individual, organization, or brand reputation and following online.
This value increases or decreases based on the online buzz and conversations that take place across the various social media channels on the internet which ultimately transcend to the offline world.
The National Academy of Public Administration defines the term as “The fair, just and equitable management of all institutions serving the public directly or by contract; the fair, just and equitable distribution of public services and implementation of public policy; and the commitment to promote fairness, justice, and equity in the formation of public policy.” In 1968, H. George Frederickson came up with "a theory of social equity and put it forward as the 'third pillar' of public administration."
Frederickson was concerned that those in public administration were making the mistake of assuming that citizen A is the same as citizen B; ignoring social and economic conditions.
His goal: for social equity to take on the same "status as economy and efficiency as values or principles to which public administration should adhere."
Recent administration from U.S. President Barack Obama has shed light on the subject of social equity for members of the LGBT community.
LGBTQI is a common abbreviation for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and intersex community.
From this community, the Obama-Biden administration has appointed more than 170 openly LGBT professionals to work full-time within the executive branch.
He has also directed United States Department of Housing and Urban Development to conduct “the first ever national study to determine the level of discrimination experienced by LGBTs in housing” Other LGBT advocacy interest groups, such as the Human Rights Campaign, have also worked hard to gain social equity in marriage and to receive all the benefits that come with marriage.
Other references include: Mitchell, Danielle.
"Reading Between The Aisles: Same-Sex Marriage As A Conflicted Symbol Of Social Equity."
Topic: The Washington & Jefferson College Review 55.
( Within the realm of public administration, racial equality is an important factor.
It deals with the idea of “biological equality” of all human races and “social equality for people of different races”.
Biological equality is similar to gender equality; it is equality of all sexes no matter what race and supports the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The idea that racial discrimination ever existed in the United States lies with our expectations that it will soon disappear.
As we practice racial equality in the realm of public administration, we are heading towards the direction of its disappearance.
According to Jeffrey B. Ferguson his article “Freedom, Equality, Race”, Ferguson explains that the people of the United States believe that racial equality will prevail.
In recent years social equity in regards to religion has seen legal improvements to help and protect all people regardless of religious affiliation or what deity they choose to follow.
According to 42 U.S.C.
sect.
2000e(j) "Religion is defined as all aspects of religious observance and practice, as well as belief, unless an employer demonstrates that he is unable to responsibly accommodate to an employee's or prospective employee's religious observance or practice without unique hardship to the conduct of the employer's business."
This law was enacted to protect employee's that are employed by bosses of another religion, and allow them to observe their particular religious practices and celebrations.
On March 3, 2012, the U.S.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) filed a Title VII discrimination case against Convergys in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri.
EEOC v. Covergys Corp., (E.D.
Mo.
2011).
Convergys placed an advertisement stating that applicants for a customer service position should be able to work a flexible work schedule and overtime.
A Jewish applicant informed the company’s recruiter during an interview that he would not be able to work on the Jewish Sabbath.
The recruiter allegedly responded that if applicant could not work Saturdays, the interview was over.
The complaint alleged that the company violated the law by refusing to hire the Jewish applicant or other employees based on their refusal to work on Saturdays because of their religious beliefs.
The EEOC sought, among other things, injunctive relief to enjoin Convergys from refusing to hire on the basis of religion and denying reasonable religious accommodations to its employees.
The EEOC claimed that given the large size of the call center (approximately 500 employees), it would not be impossible to give an employee an alternative work schedule.
According to the EEOC, the company violated Title VII by refusing to hire the applicant without even discussing possible accommodations for his religion.
Convergys settled the case by agreeing to pay $15,000 and entering into a two-year consent decree which obligates the company to make sure that its recruiters are trained on religious discrimination.
The company must also provide a notice to all future applicants that accommodations may be available for their religious beliefs.
In June 2012, the EEOC filed another religious discrimination complaint against Voss Electric Co. d/b/a Voss Lighting In this case, one of the company’s supervisors listed an employment opportunity for Voss on the Internet board of the First Baptist Church of Broken Arrow.
An applicant who heard of the opening through a client who was a member of the church applied for the job.
After a successful first interview, the applicant’s name was passed on to the branch manager who communicated with the applicant at length about his religious affiliations and ties to First Baptist Church of Broken Arrow.
The branch manager asked the applicant to identify every church he recently attended, where and when the applicant was “saved,” and whether the applicant was willing to come into work early to attend Bible study.
The branch manager openly disapproved of the applicant’s (negative) answers, and the position was not offered to him.
As the open position involved no religious duties whatsoever, the EEOC believed that the job was not offered because of the applicant’s religious beliefs and found the company’s decision not to hire the qualified applicant discriminatory.
The EEOC is therefore seeking to enjoin the company from refusing to hire on the basis of religion and denying reasonable religious accommodations in addition to monetary damages.
Adherents of Jainism first settled in Canada in small numbers in the late 19th century.
The number of Jains in Canada later increased, leading to the establishment of Jain temples in Canada.
The type of Jainism in Canada later exhibited several differences from Jainism in India.
The amount of Jains in Canada greatly increased in the 1970s due to the liberalization of Canada's immigration laws.
This has allowed for a community of Jain immigrants to become established in Canada, where they have formed a unique spiritual and cultural identity.
Most Canadian Jains now live in Ontario, particularly Toronto.
The first Jain society in the Toronto area was formed in 1974.
At that time there were approximately 150 Jain families in the region.
A Jain religious center was first officially established in Toronto in 1988 when the Jain society purchased a Church building and converted it into a temple.
</ref> The temple served both the Svetambara and Digambar communities, whose theology and religious practice differs in some aspects.
A new temple is in construction in Scarborough, which, once completed in 2016, it will be the largest Jain temple in North America.
Canadian Jainism differs from Jainism in India in part due to the lack of Jain ascetics.
In India, ascetics often promote sect loyalty and religious orthodoxy.
This difference has promoted a more non-sectarian Jain identity which allows for diversity of beliefs.
Some Jains have argued that this leads to a less authentic version of Jainism.
Others have applauded the way that Canadian Jainism promotes a more casteless modern interpretation of the religion.
In the Gujarati community Jains have become integrated with Hindus, and have often served together on community projects.
Many Canadian Jains actively promote vegetarianism, meditation, and interfaith dialog.
Mark J. Teeuwen (Marcus Jacobus Teeuwen, born 9 February 1966, Eindhoven) is a Dutch academic and Japanologist.
He is an expert in Japanese religious practices, and he is a Professor at the University of Oslo.
In a 2002 essay called From Jindō to Shinto: A Concept Takes Shape, he traced the evolution of the term "Shinto" from the reconstructed pronunciation Jindō at the time of the Nihon Shoki until today, describing the changes its meaning has gone through.
Teeuwen was awarded his MA at the University of Leiden in 1989.
His earned a Ph.D. at Leiden in 1996.
From 1994 through 1999, Teeuwen was a Lecturer at the Japanese Studies Centre, University of Wales in Cardiff.
Since 1999, he has been Professor of Japanese at the University of Oslo.
Teeuwen's critical examination of religious practices in Japan is considered ground-breaking.
His published work has been informed by his historical research.
Historicity is construed as a fundamental component of Teeuwen's view of Shinto.
Teeuwen's work is influenced by the writings of Toshio Kuroda.
In a statistical overview derived from writings by and about Mark Teeuwen, OCLC/WorldCat encompasses roughly 20 works in 60+ publications in 5 languages and 2,000+ library holdings .
Marcus Stock (born 27 August 1961) is a bishop of the Roman Catholic Church.
On 15 September 2014, he was named the tenth Bishop of Leeds succeeding Arthur Roche and consecrated on 13 November 2014.
Marcus Nigel Stock was born on 27 August 1961 in London, England.
He attended Oxford University, studying Theology at Keble College.
He entered training for the priesthood at the Venerable English College and was awarded a Licence in Dogmatic Theology by the Pontifical Gregorian University.
He was ordained a Deacon whilst in Rome by Cardinal Basil Hume, the then Roman Catholic Archbishop of Westminster.
Marcus Stock was ordained a priest in 1988 by the Archbishop of Birmingham Maurice Couve de Murville and served in parishes across the Archdiocese of Birmingham.
Between 1991 and 1994, Stock was a teacher of Religious Education at the European School, Culham.
He was appointed Assistant Director before being promoted to Director of the Archdiocesan Schools Commission between 1999 and 2009, before being appointed General Secretary of the Catholic Bishops' Conference of England and Wales in the same year by Vincent Nichols.
He led the Bishops' Conference during the Papal Visit to the UK in 2010 by Pope Benedict XVI, and was in interim charge of the Catholic Education Service after the resignation of Oona Stannard.
Shortly before his appointment as Bishop of Leeds it was announced that he would be succeeded at the Bishops' Conference by Fr Christopher Thomas from the Diocese of Nottingham at the conclusion of his five year term.
In 2012, Stock was appointed Chaplain of His Holiness by Pope Benedict XVI.
Pope Francis appointed Stock to the See of Leeds on 15 September 2014.
He chose the episcopal motto Desiderio, desideravi (Luke, 22:15) which translates as I have desired with desire to be with you.
Bishop-elect Stock attended Solemn Vespers on the eve of his consecration as bishop, where his episcopal insignia (ring, mitre and crozier) were blessed by Monsignor John Wilson, the Apostolic Administrator for the Diocese of Leeds.
His crozier was given as a gift from Stock's previous diocese, the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Birmingham.
On 13 November 2014, Marcus Stock was consecrated the tenth Bishop of Leeds by Cardinal Vincent Nichols, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Westminster, along with the co-consecrators Archbishop Bernard Longley, the Archbishop of Birmingham (from the diocese Stock had previously ministered in) and Archbishop Arthur Roche, the ninth bishop and Bishop Emeritus of Leeds (who Bishop Stock succeeds).
Åke W. Sjöberg (August 1, 1924 – August 8, 2014) was a leading Assyriologist, specialized in Sumerian language and literature.
Åke Waldemar Sjöberg, Emeritus Clark Research Professor of Assyriology and Emeritus Curator of the Tablet Collection at the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, Philadelphia, was born in Sala in the province of Västmanland, Sweden, on August 1, 1924 to his parents, postmaster Bernhard Waldemar Sjöberg and Mary Ingeborg Zetterberg.
After elementary schooling in Sala, he was able to pursue an education at Fjellstedtska skolan, a renowned boarding school in Uppsala.
The curriculum at Fjellstedtska had a heavy emphasis on the study of languages, including Latin, Greek, and Hebrew.
In 1946 he enrolled at Uppsala University to study Semitic Languages under Professor H. S. Nyberg.
He also followed courses in the History of Religion, Ethnography and Assyriology.
In 1953, Sjöberg married his wife Gunnil (née Kronborg).
Sjöberg’s interest in the cuneiform cultures of the ancient Near East, and especially the languages of Akkadian and Sumerian led him to spend eight semesters between 1953 and 1959 in Heidelberg, where he studied under Adam Falkenstein.
In 1960 Sjöberg successfully defended his doctoral thesis on the Sumerian moon-god Nanna-Suen in Sumerian sources.
A few years after his doctoral defense, he was invited to the University of Chicago, where, in January 1963, he joined the staff at the Oriental Institute, assisting in compiling the Assyrian Dictionary of the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago (CAD).
After having spent three years in Chicago, he moved on to the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia in 1966, where he mainly taught Akkadian classes.
Two years later he succeeded Samuel Noah Kramer as Clark Research Professor in Assyriology, taking over the post as Curator of the Tablet Collections of the University Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, working alongside his colleagues Barry Eichler and Erle Leichty.
Together with Erle Leichty, Sjöberg managed to secure funding for a dictionary of the Sumerian Language, The Pennsylvania Sumerian Dictionary (PSD).
The dictionary project was based on Sjöberg’s extensive collection of file cards containing lexicographic information on Sumerian words and expressions, on which he had been working since his days as a student.
The main work on the project began in 1976.
The main sponsor was the National Endowment for the Humanities, but contributions also came from other institutions and individuals.
Between 1984 and 1998, four volumes of the dictionary were published, covering the letters A and B.
A large measure of inspiration for this project can be ascribed to Sjöberg’s days in Chicago, as a contributor to the Assyrian Dictionary.
Sjöberg received a number of honours.
Among them, an honorary doctorate in Theology at Uppsala University in 1994, and in 2005 he was elected member of the Honorary Council of the International Association for Assyriology.
In 2010, having held his doctorate for 50 years, he became a jubilee doctor at the Uppsala University spring doctoral promotions ceremony.
He has had two Festschrift volumes published in his honour, the first to celebrate his 65th birthday in 1989; the second was published in 2013 (see Selected writings for both of them).
Åke Sjöberg’s high standards of philological treatments of literary and religious texts, and his lexicographical expertise in Sumerian are widely acknowledged.
Apart from his dissertation and the four volumes of the PSD, he published a monograph treating the collection of Sumerian Temple Hymns (based on notes and copies of Eugen Bergmann, with a chapter by Gene Gragg), and scores of academic articles in English, German and Swedish, treating a wide variety of linguistic and cultural matters related to Near Eastern societies.
Åke Sjöberg’s retirement in 1996 did not lead to his work coming to a halt; something that his long list of publications attests to.
In early 2004 he and his wife Gunnil moved back to Uppsala.
Despite his age Sjöberg regularly participated in seminars at Uppsala University, sharing his experiences and knowledge to younger generations of scholars and students.
Sjöberg died in Uppsala, Sweden, on 8 August 2014.
St. Joseph's College is a Catholic, undergraduate, liberal arts college that also serves as a residence and place of worship for the Catholic community on campus.
It is affiliated with the University of Alberta and the Archdiocese of Edmonton, and is currently operated by the Basilian Fathers.
The mission of the college is "to discover, integrate, and disseminate truth, as revealed by God, discerned by reason, experienced in community".
This is why throughout the academic year it offers regular services to the students on campus such as the Last Chance mass at 7:00&nbsp;p.m. on Sunday evenings.
St. Joseph's Campus Ministry offers a variety of services and events such as the September Canoe Trip and the January Antioch Retreat.
In addition, there is a weekday Mass as well as adoration and confession on Tuesdays.
Confession can also be by appointment).
Chaplains are almost always available for pastoral care and spiritual direction.
The college offers classes on a variety of topics, all with an emphasis on deepening the understanding of the Catholic faith.
Courses are offered in Christian Theology, Philosophy, and Religious Education.
They are credit courses for all degree programs requiring an Arts elective.
In addition, students in the B.A.
program can opt to have Christian Theology as a Minor.
There is also a Catholic men's residence with living accommodations for over sixty.
The residence is well known for its participation and dominance in intramural sports (28 straight championships), and its central location on the University of Alberta campus.
Famous alumni of the residence include former Prime Minister of Canada, Joe Clark.
Since 2006, there has also been a women's residence affiliated with the College.
However, Kateri House, named after the First Nations Catholic figure Kateri the Blessed, is not located in the College proper but rather in one stairwell of nearby HUB mall; Kateri House currently consists of 14 women.
Ayatollah Seyed Abbas Hosseini Ghaemmaghami is an Islamic theologian, supreme leader, philosopher and social scientist.
He is descendant of Mirza Seyed Abul Ghassem Ghammagham Farahani who was a reputed politician and scholar in Teheran.
Descending through the father he is 34 th generation grandchild of Ali Zayn al-Abidin Ghammaghami got religious education at The Theological College in Teheran in addition to the official studying.
He studied Islamic law, philosophy and mysticism at the universities of Teheran and Qom.
He became a mujtahid who is interpreter of Islamic law.
He lectured of Islamic law, mysticism, political thoughts, comparative scholastic theology and philosophy at The Theological College in Teheran as well as at several universities of Teheran.
He was invited to lecture of mysticism and theology by The Department of Middle East Researches of Berkeley University.
In his works certain theories are discussed.
He notedly emphasized the role of methodogical human reason in the process of reasoning Islamic laws underlining the necessity of objective legitimacy of political rule and the analyse of the methodology of Ijtidah.
In 1998, some of his works were published.
With these studies in the field of Islamic law, for the first time, a concept of Ijtihad on the basis of primary Islamic principles (sharia) began to be discussed.
In 1998, the collection of his works in the field of Islamic law ‘ Islamic Law Studies’ was selected as the best book of the year in the field of ‘Islamic Law’ and ‘Methodology’.
More than 100 articles and books of Ghammaghami regarding philosophy, mysticism, law and particularly Islamic law have been published so far.
He became the youngest candidate for the parliament of scholars in 1998.
He made a statement to Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung in November 2010 with the title: ‘Does Qor’an let fornicators be stoned?’ Since 2004, Ayatollah Ghammaghami has been in charge of Islamic Centre Hamburg as Imam and director.
He condemned the violent protests  in connection with the caricature crisis and declared a fatwa after london terror attacks in 2005 stating the incompatibility of Islam and terror.
He is also the chairman of IEUS (Islamic European Union of Shi'a Scholars and Theologians) that has members from 16 European countries.
The main objective of the Union is to create more understanding with European societies and to establish a perception of Islam on the basis of reason and to refuse extremist actions under the name of Islam.
On the EU interfaith assembly, he expressed his willingness to cooperate with Jewish scholars on certain issues.
Ayatollah Ghammaghami is also The Chairman of The Islamic Academy of Germany.
Margaret Madden is an Australian Catholic nun and educator.
Madden was born in Ipswich, Queensland, Australia.
Her father was a carpenter and wood carver, and her mother was a nurse.
She finished her schooling at St. Mary's College, Ipswich and joined the Convent of the Sisters of Mercy.
She obtained a bachelor's degree from Queensland, a masters in Education and Theology from the University of Toronto, Canada, and a doctorate from Deakin University, Australia.
The subject of her PhD research was Australian women’s contribution to teacher education in Pakistan.Queensland Catholic Education Commission 9 March 2011</ref> For many years she taught at Catholic schools in Gympie, Toowoomba, Brisbane and Stanthorpe in Australia.
She has been a member of the board in colleges, youth programmes, theological associations and even a hospital.
She was Director of Religious Education for Toowoomba Catholic Education from 1981–88 and a member of the Brisbane Sisters of Mercy Leadership Team from 1988-93.
In 1995 she was asked by the Sisters of Mercy to place her efforts at a teacher training institution in Pakistan.
In March 2011, the Queensland Catholic Education Commission honoured Sr Margaret by naming her 2011 ambassador for Catholic Education Week.
She shared her story with students, teachers and parents across the State during Catholic Education Week from July 24–30, 2011.
She has taught at the Notre Dame Institute of Education in Karachi since 1995 and been Director since 2001.
Karachi is a volatile environment where violence is commonplace and she was once trapped in traffic and had a gunman firing from under her vehicle.
Despite this she has been working to deliver a teaching program to young men and women who can make a real difference to the country’s development.
She taught educational psychology and curriculum studies to the bachelors and masters levels as well as coordinating and designing the Masters in Education programme.
She has also served as a board member for the Sindh Teacher Education Development Authority, Teachers Resource Centre, Programme Office for Education, Board of Studies—Faculty of Arts and Education, University of Karachi, National Catholic Institute of Theology, and the National Catholic Education Commission.
She returned to Australia permanently in June 2011.
William Swan Plumer (July 26, 1802&nbsp;– October 22, 1880) was an American clergyman, theologian and author who was recognized as an intellectual leader of the Presbyterian Church in the 1800s.
William S. Plumer was born in Greensburg, Pennsylvania on July 26, 1802.
He graduated from Washington College (now Washington and Lee University in Virginia) in 1825, received his religious education at Princeton Theological Seminary in New Jersey, and was ordained in the Presbyterian Church.
New Jersey's New Brunswick Presbytery licensed Plumer as a clergyman in 1826, and the state's Orange Presbytery ordained him as an evangelist in 1827.
Plumer was the minister of several churches during his career, most notably: First Presbyterian Church, Richmond, Virginia (1834–1846); Franklin Street Presbyterian Church, Baltimore, Maryland (1847–1854); Central Presbyterian Church, Allegheny, Pennsylvania (1854–1862); Arch Street Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (1862–1865); and Second Presbyterian Church, Pottsville, Pennsylvania (1865–1867).
From 1837 to 1845 Plumer was the editor of The Watchman of the South, a weekly Presbyterian newspaper which he had founded while serving as pastor in Richmond.
He was also a founder of Staunton's Institution for the Blind, Deaf, & Dumb.
Plumer moderated General Assemblies of different sects of the Presbyterian Church of the United States in 1838 (Old School) and 1871 (Southern).
In addition to his career in the pulpit, Plumer was a highly regarded religious instructor, and his teaching positions included: Professor at Pittsburgh Theological Seminary in Pennsylvania (1854–1862); Professor of Didactic and Polemic Theology (1867–1875) at Columbia Theological Seminary in South Carolina; and Professor of Pastoral, Casuistic, and Historical Theology (1875–1880) at Columbia.
Plumer authored at least 25 books, including commentaries on Romans, Hebrews, and Psalms, as well as numerous tracts and pamphlets, and magazine and newspaper articles.
Many of his articles were published anonymously, so the number of writings he produced cannot be calculated with accuracy.
Plumer died in Baltimore on October 22, 1880.
He was buried at Hollywood Cemetery in Richmond.
In 1829 Plumer married a widow, Eliza Garden Hassell, in Hillsboro, North Carolina.
She died in 1878 and is also buried at Hollywood Cemetery.
Plumer was the recipient of several honorary degrees, including: three Doctors of Divinity (D.D.)
(Washington & Lee, Lafayette College, and Washington & Jefferson College); and one LL.D.
(Partial list of works known to be, or presumed to be, authored by William Swan Plumer)
After the dissolution of Wiblingen abbey in 1806 he removed with some of his confreres to Tyniec in Poland and taught theology at the neighbouring University of Cracow.
When the Benedictines were forced to leave Tyniec in 1809 he was engaged as professor of church history at the Lyceum of Linz, 1809–15, and of theology at Vienna, 1815-22.
On 2 February 1822, he became Bishop of the new diocese of Tyniec, but transferred his see to Tarnów, where he began the erection of a seminary and renovated the cathedral.
On April 13, 1827, he was promoted to the diocese of Linz, where he remained until his death.
Although the Church throughout Austria at this date was still dependent to a very great degree on the government in ecclesiastical matters, the bishop knew how to revive and strengthen the ecclesiastical spirit in his clergy and people.
Of great importance was the introduction of the Jesuits and their settlement on the Freinberg near Linz, which was accomplished by means of the vigorous and generous aid of Archduke Maximilian of Este, and the foundation of numerous other religious establishments (Franciscans, Salesians, Sisters of Mercy, etc.).
The Revolution of 1848 not only increased political liberty, but also gave to the Church greater independence in its own province.
The bishop at once made use of the regained freedom to revive popular missions, which had been discontinued since the reign of Maria Theresa.
In 1850 at his instance a ten day's mission was held by the Redemptorists, at which the number of communicants was reckoned at 50,000.
In the same year, the diocesan theological institute was placed entirely under episcopal supervision, and an examination of candidates for the position of parish priests was established; in October for the first time examinations were held by prosynodal examiners.
He laboured successfully for the emancipation of the Church from governmental encroachments, fostered the religious life of the clergy and laity by introducing clerical retreats and popular missions, and advanced the religious education of the laity by introducing religious orders.
he is the author of Die Feier der heil.
Kirche (Vienna, 1817); Das Kath.
Glaubensprincip (Vienna, 1823); Züge und Schilderungern aus dem Leben des sel.
Franz Job (Linz, 1835) and various minor works, pastoral letters, occasional lectures, and sermons.
He also re-edited Klypfel's institutiones theologiae dogmaticae (Vienna, 1819–21) and contributed various theological treatises to Jakob Frint's Theologische Zeitschrift (Vienna, 1813–16).
The Office of the Industrial Tribunals and Fair Employment Tribunal (OITFET) is a Government body in Northern Ireland which is responsible for the facilitation of employment tribunals.
Industrial Tribunals are independent judicial bodies in Northern Ireland that hear and determine claims to do with employment matters.
These include a range of claims relating to unfair dismissal, breach of contract, wages and other payments as well as discrimination on the grounds of sex, race discrimination, disability discrimination, sexual orientation, age, part-time working and equal pay.
The Fair Employment Tribunal is an independent judicial body in Northern Ireland that hears and determines complaints of discrimination on the grounds of religious belief or political opinion.
It is staffed by 59 personnel responsible for the administration and organisation of the tribunals.
The staff are provided by the Department for Employment and Learning (DEL) and the team is led by the Secretary of the Tribunals.
The jurisdiction of an industrial tribunal to hear and determine complaints is subject to Article 85 of the Fair Employment and Treatment (Northern Ireland) Order 1998.
Where a complaint has been made to the Fair Employment Tribunal of unlawful discrimination on the grounds of religious belief or political opinion and it appears that this complaint is one in respect of which: then the President or Vice President may direct that these matters shall be heard by the Fair Employment Tribunal and not by an industrial tribunal.
For these purposes the Fair Employment Tribunal has the jurisdiction and powers of an industrial tribunal.
Before such a direction is made however, a notice will be sent to those concerned, giving them an opportunity to show cause why such a direction should not be made.
Industrial Tribunals sit mainly in Belfast but in certain circumstances may use other centres throughout Northern Ireland.
The Fair Employment Tribunal deals with claims of discrimination on the grounds of religious belief or political opinion.
The statutory regulations governing its proceedings are The Fair Employment Tribunal (Rules of Procedure) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005.
Tribunals are like courts but are not as formal; for example, nobody wears a wig or a gown.
However like a court it must act independently and cannot give legal advice.
Almost all hearings are open to the public.
The Fair Employment Tribunal sits in Belfast.
Persons (or other bodies) bringing claims to a tribunal are known as claimants and those against whom such claims are brought are known as respondents.
Religious intolerance is intolerance against another's religious beliefs or practices or lack thereof.
The mere statement on the part of a religion that its own beliefs and practices are correct and any contrary beliefs are incorrect does not in itself constitute intolerance (i.e., ideological intolerance).
Religious intolerance, rather, is when a group (e.g., a society, religious group, non-religious group) specifically refuses to tolerate practices, persons or beliefs on religious grounds.
According to the 19th century British historian Arnold Toynbee, for a religious establishment to persecute another religion for being "wrong" ironically puts the persecuting religion in the wrong, undermining its own legitimacy.
The constitutions of some countries contain provisions expressly forbidding the state from engaging in certain acts of religious intolerance or preference within its own borders, examples of such include The First Amendment of the United States Constitution, the Article 4 of the Basic Law of Germany, Article 44.2.1 of the Constitution of The Republic of Ireland, Article 40 of the Estonian Constitution, Article 24 of the Constitution of Turkey, Article 36 of the Constitution of the People's Republic of China, and Article 3 Section 5 of the Constitution of the Philippines.
Other states, whilst not containing constitutional provisions directly related to religion, nonetheless contain provisions forbidding discrimination on religious grounds (see, for example, Article 1 of the French Constitution, article 15 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and article 40 of the Constitution of Egypt).
These constitutional provisions do not necessarily guarantee that all elements of the state remain free from religious intolerance at all times, and practice can vary widely from country to country.
Other countries, meanwhile, may allow for religious preference, for instance through the establishment of one or more state religions, but not for religious intolerance.
Finland, for example, has the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland and Finnish Orthodox Church as its official state religions, yet upholds the right of free expression of religion in article 11 of its constitution.
Some countries retain laws forbidding defamation of religious belief.
Some retain laws forbidding all forms of blasphemy (e.g., Germany where, in 2006, Manfred van H. was convicted of blasphemy against Islam).
This is seen by some as official endorsement of religious intolerance, amounting to the criminalization of religious views.
The connection between intolerance and blasphemy laws is closest when the laws apply to only one religion.
In Pakistan blasphemy directed against either the tenets of the Qur'an or the Prophet Mohammed is punishable by either life imprisonment or death.
Apostasy, the rejection of one's old religion, is also criminalized in a number of countries, notably Afghanistan with Abdul Rahman being the first to face the death penalty for converting to Christianity.
The United Nations upholds the right to free expression of religious belief in articles and 18 and 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights while article 2 forbids discrimination on the basis of religion.
Article 18 also allows for the freedom to change religion.
The Declaration is not legally binding, however the United States chose in 1998 to pass the International Religious Freedom Act, creating the Commission on International Religious Freedom, and mandating that the United States government take action against any country found to violate the religious freedoms outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The European Convention on Human Rights, which is legally binding on all European Union states (following the passage of the Human Rights Act 1998 in the United Kingdom), makes restricting the rights of an individual to practice or change their religion illegal in article 9, and discrimination on the basis of religion illegal in article 14.
In its 2000 annual report on international religious freedom, the U.S. State Department cited China, Myanmar, Iran, Iraq and Sudan for persecuting people for their religious faith and practices.
The report, which covers July 1999 through June 2000, details U.S. policy toward countries where religious freedom is violated in the view of the U.S. State Department.
The advocacy group Freedom House produced a report entitled "Religious Freedom in the World" in 2000 which ranked countries according to their religious freedom.
The countries receiving a score of 7, indicating those where religious freedom was least respected, were Turkmenistan, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Myanmar and North Korea.
China was given a score of 6 overall, however Tibet was listed separately in the 7 category.
Those countries receiving a score of 1, indicating the highest level of religious freedom, were Estonia, Finland, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway and the United States.
Within those countries that openly advocate religious tolerance there remain debates as to the limits of tolerance.
Some individuals and religious groups, for example, retain beliefs or practices which involve acts contrary to established law, such as the use of cannabis by members of the Rastafari movement, the religious use of eagle feathers by non-Native Americans (contrary to the eagle feather law, 50 CFR 22), or the practice of polygamy amongst the LDS Church in the 19th century.
The precise definition of "religion", and to which groups it applies, can also cause controversy, for example the case of Scientologists who have all rights of religious freedom in the U.S. but complain that the highest court decided not to grant the status of a Non-profit organization in several U.S. states.
Attempts to legislate against acts of religious intolerance amongst citizens frequently come up against issues regarding the freedom of speech; whilst in France being convicted of incitement to religious hatred can carry a maximum of 18 months in prison.
An attempt to pass a similar law by Tony Blair's Labour government in the United Kingdom had to be dropped in April, 2006 after criticism that it restricted free speech.
In Victoria, Australia the Racial and Religious Tolerance Act 2001 makes illegal "conduct that incites hatred against, serious contempt for, or revulsion or severe ridicule of, that other person or class of persons" on the grounds of religious belief.
Theophobia is a fear of religion or gods which may incite revulsion against them.
Theophobes may avoid religious texts, houses of worship, and people who believe in deities.
Theophobia may be expressed as irrational fear, anger, hatred or other negative emotion toward religious practitioners.
Theophobic representation may categorize the deity as being an arbitrary totalitarian dictator or contrariwise, as being not worthy of worship.
Adam Berg (1540–1610) was a German printer and publisher who is best remembered for his work as a music publisher and for his publication of Catholic religious texts.
His publishing company was based in Munich, and he actively published music there from 1567–1597.
His most notable music publication was Patrocinium musicum which was published in ten volumes from 1573–1580, five of which were devoted to music by composer Orlande de Lassus.
The European Aleph Institute is a group, founded in 2005 and based in Brussels, dedicated to ensuring the rights of an estimated 3,500 to 5,000 Jews imprisoned in Europe to practice their religion.
They arrange for prisoners to be provided with kosher meals, religious texts and ceremonial objects, as well as counseling, education, and financial support to families of prisoners.
The expressed intent is to avoid recidivism.
Alexandre Rodolphe Vinet (June 17, 1797 - May 4, 1847), was a Swiss critic and theologian.
He was born near Lausanne in Switzerland.
Educated for the Protestant ministry, he was ordained in 1819, when already teacher of the French language and literature in the gymnasium at Basel; and throughout his life he was as much a critic as a theologian.
His literary criticism brought him into contact with Augustin Sainte-Beuve, for whom he obtained an invitation to lecture at Lausanne, which led to his famous work on Port-Royal.
Vinet's Chrestomathie française (1829), his Études sur la littérature française au XIX<sup>e</sup> siècle (1840–51), and his Histoire de la littérature française au XVII<sup>e</sup> siècle, together with his Études sur Pascal, Études sur les moralistes aux XV<sup>e</sup> et XVI<sup>e</sup> siècles, Histoire de la prédication parmi les Réformes de France and other related works, gave evidence of a wide knowledge of literature, acute literary judgment and a distinguished faculty of appreciation.
He adjusted his theories to the work under review, and condemned nothing as long as it met his literary standards.
As a theologian Vinet gave a fresh impulse to Protestant theology, especially in French-speaking lands, but also in England and elsewhere.
Lord Acton classed him with Richard Rothe.
His philosophy relied strongly on conscience, defined as that by which man stands in direct personal relation with God as moral sovereign, and the seat of a moral individuality which nothing can rightly infringe.
He advocated complete freedom of religious belief, and to this end the formal separation of church and state (Mémoire en faveur de la liberté des cultes (1826), Essai sur la conscience (1829), Essai sur la manifestation des convictions religieuses (1842).
Accordingly, when in 1845 the civil power in the canton of Vaud interfered with the church's autonomy, he led a secession which took the name of L'Église libre.
But already from 1831, when he published his Discours sur quelques sujets religieux (Nouveaux discours, 1841), he had begun to exert a liberalizing and deepening influence on religious thought far beyond his own canton, by bringing traditional doctrine to the test of a living personal experience (see also Gaston Frommel).
In this he resembled FW Robertson, as also in the change which he introduced into pulpit style and in the permanence of his influence.
Vinet died at Clarens (Vaud).
A considerable part of his work was not printed till after his death.
His life was written in 1875 by Eugène Rambert, who re-edited the Chrestomathie in 1876.
A uniform edition of his works was begun in 1908.
The Southern Baptist Theological Seminary (SBTS), in Louisville, Kentucky, is the oldest of the six seminaries affiliated with the Southern Baptist Convention (SBC).
The seminary was founded in 1859 at Greenville, South Carolina, where it was at first lodged on the campus of Furman University.
After being closed during the Civil War, it moved in 1877 to a newly built campus in downtown Louisville and later moved to its current location in the Crescent Hill neighborhood.
For more than fifty years Southern has been one of the world's largest theological seminaries, with a current FTE (full-time equivalent) enrollment of over 2,100 students.
In the wake of the Civil War, the seminary suspended classes for several years.
With the financial help of several wealthy Baptists, including John D. Rockefeller and a group of Kentucky business leaders who promised to underwrite the construction of a new campus, the seminary relocated to Fifth Street and Broadway in downtown Louisville, Kentucky, in 1877.
In 1926, during the administration of Southern president Edgar Y. Mullins, the seminary occupied "The Beeches," a suburban campus east of the city center designed by the Frederick Law Olmsted firm.
The campus now contains 10 academic and residential buildings in Georgian architecture and three housing villages for married students.
In 1951, President Duke McCall integrated the campus, in defiance of Kentucky state laws that established segregation at public facilities.
Later, at the height of the Civil Rights movement, Southern was the only SBC agency to host a visit by Baptist minister and civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King (1961).
</ref> During King's address at SBTS he mentioned he had been to the seminary's chapel several times in the past when accompanying his mother, since King's mother was an organist for the Women's Auxiliary of the National Baptist Convention.
As a result, many donors withheld their gifts to Southern, and some demanded McCall's resignation because Dr. King had spoken in the seminary chapel.
In 1938, Southern was among the first group of seminaries and divinity schools accredited by the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada.
Thirty years later, in 1968, Southern was one of the first seminaries to be accredited by its regional accrediting body, Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
Throughout its history, Southern has been an innovator in theological education, establishing one of the first Ph.D. programs in religion (1892), the first department of Christian missions (1902), the first curriculum in religious education (1925), and the first accredited, seminary-based social work program (1984).
In 1953, President McCall and the trustees reorganized the institution along the lines of a small university.
The curriculum was distributed among three graduate-professional schools—Theology, headed by Dean Penrose St. Amant; Religious Education, led by Dean Gaines S. Dobbins; and Church Music, under Dean Forrest Heeren.
In 1984, Dr. Anne Davis became founding dean of the Carver School of Church Social Work, which launched the first seminary-based Master of Social Work program to be accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (1987).
The school was disbanded in 1997 by a subsequent seminary administration.
It decided that secular social work was inappropriate for a seminary, and replaced the program with a school for training evangelists, missionaries and church-growth specialists.
In 1968, Southern helped establish Kentuckiana Metroversity, a local consortium of two seminaries, two state universities, a community college and two private colleges.
They offer a joint library catalog, cross-registration of any student in any member institution, and faculty and cultural exchanges.
In 1970, Southern helped create the Theological Education Association of Mid-America (TEAM-A), one of the United States' first seminary "clusters," a consortium of five schools related to the Presbyterian, Wesleyan Methodist, Disciples of Christ, Roman Catholic and Baptist traditions.
They provide inter-institutional team teaching, cross registration among students, and a joint library catalog.
The seminary is governed by a board of trustees nominated and elected by the SBC.
It receives almost one-third of its $31&nbsp;million annual budget from the SBC Cooperative Program, the unified financial support system that distributes gifts from the congregations to the agencies and institutions of the denomination.
In fiscal year 2007-08, Southern received $9.5&nbsp;million through the Cooperative Program.
Its endowments and invested reserves totaled $78&nbsp;million.
Southern is currently organized into three schools: The seminary's mission statement is: "Under the Lordship of Jesus Christ, the mission of The Southern Baptist Theological Seminary is to be totally committed to the Bible as the Word of God, to the Great Commission as our mandate, and to be a servant of the churches of the Southern Baptist Convention by training, educating, and preparing ministers of the gospel for more faithful service."
Southern was one of the first seminaries in the nation to offer the PhD degree, beginning in 1895.
During the 1970s and 1980s, it had the largest accredited PhD program in religion in the United States.
It was the first seminary in the nation to offer courses in religious education, beginning in 1903.
This program ultimately expanded into a School of Religious Education in 1953.
In 1907, William Owen Carver founded the Women's Missionary Union Training School, which eventually became the Carver School of Missions and Social Work.
In 1910, Southern established the Norton Lectures, a series of lectures on "Science and Philosophy in their Relations to Religion."
Speakers have included conservative scholars William A. Dembski, Marvin Olasky and Alvin Plantinga.
In 1953, Southern became one of the few seminaries to offer a full, accredited degree course in church music.
After endowing the Billy Graham Chair of Evangelism in 1965 (the first such professorship in any Baptist seminary), Southern expanded it in 1994 into the Billy Graham School of Missions, Evangelism and Church Growth.
It is the first program in the SBC dedicated solely to training missionaries and evangelists.
In the 1980s, Southern became the first seminary or divinity school to establish a school of church social work offering an accredited, seminary-based M.S.W.
degree.
In 1993, the seminary's president R. Albert Mohler, Jr. came into office re-affirming the Seminary's historic "Abstract of Principles," part of the original charter of Southern created in 1858.
The charter stated that every Professor must agree to "teach in accordance with, and not contrary to, the Abstract of Principles hereinafter laid down" and that "a departure" from the principles in the Abstract of Principles would be grounds for resignation or removal by the Trustees.
Dr. Mohler, following these instructions, required that current professors affirm, without any spoken or unspoken reservations, the Abstract of Principles.
Professors were also asked to affirm the "Baptist Faith and Message" of the Southern Baptist Convention, since Southern is an agency of the SBC.
An overwhelming majority of faculty affirmed the Abstract of Principles, but declined to affirm some of the doctrines stated in the "Baptist Faith and Message," which had recently been amended to bring it in line with more conservative positions held by the SBC.
In the wake of the subsequent dismissal or resignation of a large percentage of the faculty, Southern has replaced them with new professors who agree to adhere to the "Baptist Faith and Message" in addition to the seminary's Abstract of Principles.
In 2005, Southern revised its pastoral care and counseling major.
It ended the counseling program which it had been offering since the 1950s, under Dr. Wayne Oates and his colleagues.
It replaced it with the "Nouthetic Counseling" or Bible-based counseling program, championed by Dr. Jay E. Adams since the 1970s.
The dean of Southern Seminary's school of theology stated that the change was necessary because a successful integration of modern psychology and theology was not possible.
In 2009, Southern Seminary expanded its doctoral program to include a Spirituality PhD.
Students pursuing this degree try to incorporate their Christian-based spirituality with research for a dissertation.
The word Puranas ( , , ;) literally means "ancient, old", and it is a vast genre of Indian literature about a wide range of topics, particularly myths, legends and other traditional lore.
Composed primarily in Sanskrit, but also in regional languages, several of these texts are named after major Hindu deities such as Vishnu, Shiva and Devi.Ludo Rocher (1986), The Puranas, Otto Harrassowitz Verlag, ISBN 978-3447025225, pages 1-5, 12-21</ref> The Puranas genre of literature is found in both Hinduism and Jainism.
The Puranic literature is encyclopedic, and it includes diverse topics such as cosmogony, cosmology, genealogies of gods, goddesses, kings, heroes, sages, and demigods, folk tales, pilgrimages, temples, medicine, astronomy, grammar, mineralogy, humor, love stories, as well as theology and philosophy.
The content is highly inconsistent across the Puranas, and each Purana has survived in numerous manuscripts which are themselves inconsistent.
The Hindu Puranas are anonymous texts and likely the work of many authors over the centuries; in contrast, most Jaina Puranas can be dated and their authors assigned.
There are 18 Maha Puranas (Great Puranas) and 18 Upa Puranas (Minor Puranas), with over 400,000 verses.
The first versions of the various Puranas were likely composed between the 3rd- and 10th-century CE.
The Puranas do not enjoy the authority of a scripture in Hinduism, but are considered a Smriti.
They have been influential in the Hindu culture, inspiring major national and regional annual festivals of Hinduism.
Their role and value as sectarian religious texts and historical texts has been controversial, and the sectarian religious practices included in them are considered Vaidika (congruent with Vedic literature).
The Bhagavata Purana has been among the most celebrated and popular text in the Puranic genre, and is of non-dualistic tenor.
The Puranic literature wove with the Bhakti movement in India, and both Dvaita and Advaita scholars have commented on the underlying Vedantic themes in the Maha Puranas.
Douglas Harper states that the etymological origins of Puranas is from Sanskrit Puranah, literally "ancient, former," from pura "formerly, before," cognate with Greek paros "before," pro "before," Avestan paro "before," Old English fore, from proto-Indo-European *pre-, from root *per-."
Vyasa, the narrator of the Mahabharata, is hagiographically credited as the compiler of the Puranas.
The date of the production of the written texts does not define the date of origin of the Puranas.
They existed in an oral form before being written down, and were incrementally modified well into the 16th century.
An early occurrence of the term 'purana' is found in the Chandogya Upanishad (7.1.2), translated by Patrick Olivelle as "the corpus of histories and ancient tales" (The Early Upanisads, 1998, p.&nbsp;259).
The Brhadaranyaka Upanishad refers to purana as the "fifth Veda", , reflecting the early religious importance of these facts, which over time have been forgotten and presumably then in purely oral form.
Importantly, the most famous form of itihāsapurāṇaṃ is the Mahabharata.
The term also appears in the Atharvaveda 11.7.24.
It is important to bear in mind that perhaps a thousand years separates the occurrence of this term in these Upanisads from 'The Puranas' understood as a unified set of texts (see below), and it is therefore by no means certain that the term as it occurs in the Upanisads has any direct relation to what today is identified as 'The Puranas'.
The extant Puranas, states Coburn, are not identical to the original Puranas.
Rajendra Hazra notes that Puranas that survive presently do not follow, partially or totally, the characteristic definition of the scope and contents of Puranas as described in ancient non-Puranic Indian texts.
In the 19th century, F. E. Pargiter believed the "original Purana" may date to the time of the final redaction of the Vedas.
Gavin Flood connects the rise of the written Purana historically with the rise of devotional cults centring upon a particular deity in the Gupta era: the Puranic corpus is a complex body of materials that advance the views of various competing cults.
Wendy Doniger, based on her study of indologists, assigns approximate dates to the various Puranas.
She dates Markandeya Purana to c. 250 CE (with one portion dated to c. 550 CE), Matsya Purana to c. 250–500 CE, Vayu Purana to c. 350 CE, Harivamsa and Vishnu Purana to c. 450 CE, Brahmanda Purana to c. 350–950 CE, Vamana Purana to c. 450–900 CE, Kurma Purana to c. 550–850 CE, and Linga Purana to c. 600–1000 CE.
Of the many texts designated 'Puranas' the most important are the s. These are said to be eighteen in number, divided into three groups of six, though they are not always counted in the same way.
Combining the various lists Cornelia Dimmitt and J.
A.
B. van Buitenen have collated twenty names, totalling 429,000 verses: The Mahapuranas have been classified, in modern times, based on whether the major focus of the text is on Vishnu, Brahma or Shiva: The Padma Purana, Uttara Khanda (236.18-21), itself a Vaishnava Purana, classifies the Puranas in accordance with the three gunas or qualities; truth, passion, and indifference (however, this classification is not found in many versions of the Padma Purana manuscript): The difference between Upapuranas and Mahapuranas has been explained by Rajendra Hazra as, "a Mahapurana is well known, and that what is less well known becomes an Upapurana".
Rocher states that the distinction between Mahapurana and Upapurana is ahistorical, there is little corroborating evidence that either were more or less known, and that "the term Mahapurana occurs rarely in Purana literature, and is probably of late origin."
The Upapuranas are eighteen in number, with disagreement as to which canonical titles belong in that list of eighteen.
They include among many: Sanat-kumara, Narasimha, Brihan-naradiya, Siva-rahasya, Durvasa, Kapila, Vamana, Bhargava, Varuna, Kalika, Samba, Nandi, Surya, Parasara, Vasishtha, Devi-Bhagavata, Ganesha, Mudgala, and Hamsa, with only a few having been critically edited.
The Ganesha and Mudgala Puranas are devoted to Ganesha.
The Devi-Bhagavata Purana, which extols the goddess Durga, has become (along with the Devi Mahatmya of the Markandeya Purana) a basic text for Devi worshipers.
This corpus of texts tells of the origins and traditions of particular Tamil Shiva temples or shrines.
There are numerous Sthala Puranas, most written in vernaculars, some with Sanskrit versions as well.
The 275 Shiva Sthalams of the continent have puranas for each, famously glorified in the Tamil literature Tevaram.
Some appear in Sanskrit versions in the Mahapuranas or Upapuranas.
Some Tamil Sthala Puranas have been researched by David Dean Shulman.
The Skanda Purana is the largest Purana with 81,000 verses, named after deity Skanda, the son of Shiva and Uma, and brother of deity Ganesha.
The mythological part of the text weaves the stories of Shiva and Vishnu, along with Parvati, Rama, Krishna and other major gods in Hindu pantheon.
In Chapter 1.8, it declares, The Skanda Purana has received renewed scholarship interest ever since the late 20th-century discovery of a Nepalese Skanda Purana manuscript dated to be from early 9th-century.
This discovery established that Skanda Purana existed by the 9th century.
However, a comparison shows that the 9th-century document is entirely different than versions of Skanda Purana that have been circulating in South Asia since the colonial era.
Several Puranas, such as the Matysa Purana, list "five characteristics" or "five signs" of a Purana.
These are called the Pancha Lakshana ( ), and are topics covered by a Purana: A few Puranas, such as the most popular Bhagavata Purana, add five more characteristics to expand this list to ten: These five or ten sections weave in biographies, myths, geography, medicine, astronomy, Hindu temples, pilgrimage to distant real places, rites of passage, charity, ethics, duties, rights, dharma, divine intervention in cosmic and human affairs, love stories, festivals, theosophy and philosophy.
The Puranas link gods to men, both generally and in religious bhakti context.
Here the Puranic literature follows a general pattern.
It starts with introduction, a future devotee is described as ignorant about the god yet curious, the devotee learns about the god and this begins the spiritual realization, the text then describes instances of god's grace which begins to persuade and convert the devotee, the devotee then shows devotion which is rewarded by the god, the reward is appreciated by the devotee and in return performs actions to express further devotion.
Over time, states Om Prakash, chapters and verses from one Purana were transferred or interpolated into another Purana.
Similarly, texts from Vedic literature, Smritis and Sutras were incorporated into the Puranas, older verses were replaced with new ones, thereby creating manuscripts with the same name but inconsistent content.
The content about kings, history of various people, sages and kingdoms are in part based on real events, in part hagiography, and in part expansive imagination or fabrication.
The high degree of inconsistency and manuscript corruption occurred particularly from the 12th century onwards, evidenced by cross referencing across the texts; Matsya Purana, for example, stated that Kurma Purana has 18,000 verses, while Agni Purana asserts the same text has 8,000 verses, and Naradiya attests that Kurma manuscript has 17,000 verses.
Along with inconsistencies, common ideas are found throughout the corpus but it is not possible to trace the lines of influence of one Purana upon another so the corpus is best viewed as a synchronous whole.
An example of similar myths woven across the Puranas, but in different versions, include the lingabhava – the "apparition of the linga".
The story features Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva, the three major deities of Hinduism, who get together, debate, and after various versions of the story, in the end the glory of Shiva is established by the apparition of linga.
This myth, state Bonnefoy and Doniger, appears in Vayu Purana 1.55, Brahmanda Purana 1.26, Shiva Purana's Rudra Samhita Sristi Khanda 15, Skanda Purana's chapters 1.3, 1.16 and 3.1, and other Puranas.
The texts are in Sanskrit as well as regional languages, and almost entirely in narrative metric couplets.
The texts use ideas, concepts and even names that are symbolic.
The words can interpreted literally, and at an axiological level.
The Vishnu Purana, for example, recites a myth where the names of the characters are loaded with symbolism and axiological significance.
The myth is as follows, The Puranic literature, stated Max Muller, is independent, has changed often over its history, and has little relation to the Vedic age or the Vedic literature.
Some scholars suggest that the Puranas claim a link to the Vedas but in name only, not in substance.
Yet a third group of scholars state that the link is there, at least in spiritual themes and theology.
The Puranas aim to complement the Vedic literature, interpret its theories, and help spread the ideas therein.
The Puranas, states Kees Bolle, are best seen as "vast, often encyclopedic" works from ancient and medieval India.
Some of them, such as the Agni Purana and Matsya Purana, cover all sorts of subjects, dealing with – states Rocher – "anything and everything", from fiction to facts, from practical recipes to abstract philosophy, from festivals to astronomy.
Like encyclopedias, they were updated to remain current with their times, by a process called Upabrimhana.
However, some of the 36 major and minor Puranas are more focussed handbooks, such as the Skanda Purana, Padma Purana and Bhavishya Purana which deal primarily with Tirthas, while Vayu Purana and Brahmanda Purana focus more on history, mythology and legends.
The colonial era scholars of Puranas studied them primarily as religious texts, with Vans Kennedy declaring in 1837, that any other use of these documents would be disappointing.
John Zephaniah Holwell, who from 1732 onwards spent 30 years in India and was elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1767, described the Puranas as "18 books of divine words".
British officials and researchers such as Holwell, states Urs App, were orientalist scholars who introduced a distorted picture of Indian literature and Puranas as "sacred scriptures of India" in 1767.
Holwell, states Urs App, "presented it as the opinion of knowledgeable Indians; But it is abundantly clear that no knowledgeable Indian would ever have said anything remotely similar".
Modern scholarship doubts this 19th-century premise.
Ludo Rocher, for example, states, The study of Puranas as a religious text remains a controversial subject.
Some Indologists, in colonial tradition of scholarship, treat the Puranic texts as scriptures or useful source of religious contents.
Other scholars, such as Ronald Inden, consider this approach "essentialist and antihistorical" because the Purana texts changed often over time and over distance, and the underlying presumption of they being religious texts is that those changes are "Hinduism expressed by a religious leader or philosopher", or "expressiveness of Hindu mind", or "society at large", when the texts and passages are literary works and "individual geniuses of their authors".
The Jaina Puranas are like Hindu Puranas encyclopedic epics in style, and are considered as anuyogas (expositions), but they are not considered Jain Agamas and do not have scripture or quasi-canonical status in Jainism tradition.
They are best described, states John Cort, as post-scripture literary corpus based upon themes found in Jain scriptures.
Scholars have debated whether the Puranas should be categorized as sectarian, or non-partisan, or monotheistic religious texts.
Different Puranas describe a number of stories where Brahma, VIshnu and Shiva compete for supremacy.
In some Puranas, such as Devi Bhagavata, the Goddess Devi joins the competition and ascends for the position of being Supreme.
Further, most Puranas emphasize legends around one who is either Shiva, or Vishnu, or Devi.
The texts thus appear to be sectarian.
However, states Edwin Bryant, while these legends sometimes appear to be partisan, they are merely acknowledging the obvious question of whether one or the other is more important, more powerful.
In the final analysis, all Puranas weave their legends to celebrate pluralism, and accept the other two and all gods in Hindu pantheon as personalized form but equivalent essence of the Ultimate Reality called Brahman.
The Puranas are not spiritually partisan, states Bryant, but "accept and indeed extol the transcendent and absolute nature of the other, and of the Goddess Devi too".
Ludo Rocher, in his review of Puranas as sectarian texts, states, "even though the Puranas contain sectarian materials, their sectarianism should not be interpreted as exclusivism in favor of one god to the detriment of all others".
Despite the diversity and wealth of manuscripts from ancient and medieval India that have survived into the modern times, there is a paucity of historical data in them.
Neither the author name nor the year of their composition were recorded or preserved, over the centuries, as the documents were copied from one generation to another.
This paucity tempted 19th-century scholars to use the Puranas as a source of chronological and historical information about India or Hinduism.
This effort was, after some effort, either summarily rejected by some scholars, or become controversial, because the Puranas include fables and fiction, and the information within and across the Puranas was found to be inconsistent.
In early 20th-century, some regional records were found to be more consistent, such as for the Hindu dynasties in Andhra Pradesh.
Basham, as well as Kosambi have questioned whether lack of inconsistency is sufficient proof of reliability and historicity.
More recent scholarship has attempted to, with limited success, states Ludo Rocher, use the Puranas for historical information in combination with independent corroborating evidence, such as "epigraphy, archaeology, Buddhist literature, Jaina literature, non-Puranic literature, Islamic records, and records preserved outside India by travelers to or from India in medieval times such as in China, Myanmar and Indonesia".
The study of Puranas manuscripts has been challenging because they are highly inconsistent.
This is true for all Mahapuranas and Upapuranas.
Most editions of Puranas, in use particularly by Western scholars, are "based on one manuscript or on a few manuscripts selected at random", even though divergent manuscripts with the same title exist.
Scholars have long acknowledged the existence of Purana manuscripts that "seem to differ much from printed edition", and it is unclear which one is accurate, and whether conclusions drawn from the randomly or cherrypicked printed version were universal over geography or time.
This problem is most severe with Purana manuscripts of the same title, but in regional languages such as Tamil, Telugu, Bengali and others which have largely been ignored.
Newly discovered Puranas manuscripts from the medieval centuries has attracted scholarly attention and the conclusion that the Puranic literature has gone through slow redaction and text corruption over time, as well as sudden deletion of numerous chapters and its replacement with new content to an extent that the currently circulating Puranas are entirely different than those that existed before 11th century, or 16th century.
For example, a newly discovered palm-leaf manuscript of Skanda Purana in Nepal has been dated to be from 810 CE, but is entirely different than versions of Skanda Purana that have been circulating in South Asia since the colonial era.
Further discoveries of four more manuscripts, each different, suggest that document has gone through major redactions twice, first likely before the 12th century, and the second very large change sometime in the 15th-16th century for unknown reasons.
The different versions of manuscripts of Skanda Purana suggest that "minor" redactions, interpolations and corruption of the ideas in the text over time.
Horace Hayman Wilson published one of the earliest English translations of one version of the Vishnu Purana in 1840.
The same manuscript, and Wilson's translation, was reinterpreted by Manmatha Nath Dutt, and published in 1896.
The All India Kashiraj Trust has published editions of the Puranas.
Maridas Poullé (Mariyadas Pillai) published a French translation from a Tamil version of the Bhagavata Purana in 1788, and this was widely distributed in Europe becoming an introduction to the 18th-century Hindu culture and Hinduism to many Europeans during the colonial era.
Poullé republished a different translation of the same text as Le Bhagavata in 1795, from Pondicherry.
A copy of Poullé translation is preserved in Bibliothèque nationale de France, Paris.
The most significant influence of the Puranas genre of Indian literature have been, state scholars and particularly Indian scholars, in "culture synthesis", in weaving and integrating the diverse beliefs from ritualistic rites of passage to Vedantic philosophy, from fictional legends to factual history, from individual introspective yoga to social celebratory festivals, from temples to pilgrimage, from one god to another, from goddesses to tantra, from the old to the new.
These have been dynamic open texts, composed socially, over time.
This, states Greg Bailey, may have allowed the Hindu culture to "preserve the old while constantly coming to terms with the new", and "if they are anything, they are records of cultural adaptation and transformation" over the last 2,000 years.
The Puranic literature, suggests Khanna, influenced "acculturation and accommodation" of a diversity of people, with different languages and from different economic classes, across different kingdoms and traditions, catalyzing the syncretic "cultural mosaic of Hinduism".
They helped influence cultural pluralism in India, and are a literary record thereof.
Om Prakash states the Puranas served as efficient medium for cultural exchange and popular education in ancient and medieval India.
These texts adopted, explained and integrated regional deities such as Pashupata in Vayu Purana, Sattva in Vishnu Purana, Dattatreya in Markendeya Purana, Bhojakas in Bhavishya Purana.
Further, states Prakash, they dedicated chapters to "secular subjects such as poetics, dramaturgy, grammar, lexicography, astronomy, war, politics, architecture, geography and medicine as in Agni Purana, perfumery and lapidary arts in Garuda Purana, painting, sculpture and other arts in Vishnudharmottara Purana".
The cultural influence of the Puranas extended to Indian classical arts, such as songs, dance culture such as Bharata Natyam in south India and Rasa Lila in northeast India, plays and recitations.
The myths, lunar calendar schedule, rituals and celebrations of major Hindu cultural festivities such as Holi, Diwali and Durga Puja are in the Puranic literature.
Religion in Norway is mostly Evangelical Lutheran, with 76.1% of the population officially belonging to the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Norway in 2013.
The Roman Catholic Church is the next largest Christian denomination at 2.4% (however there has been a charge of massive fraud in the Catholic numbers) and a total of 82% belong to all Christian denominations.
The officially unaffiliated make up 13.0% of the population.
Islam is claimed by 2.4% of the population according to government records, making it the largest non-Christian religion.
However, the state provides funds to recognized denominations according to the number of registered members and the Evangelical Lutheran Church has a privileged place in society, though less so since a constitutional change in May 2012, which means the official figures do not necessarily reflect actual religious belief.
Early Norwegians, like all of the people of Scandinavia, were adherents of Norse paganism; the Sámi having a shamanistic religion.
Due to the efforts of Christian missionaries, Norway was gradually Christianized in a process starting in approximately 1000 and substantially finished by 1150.
Prior to the Reformation, Norwegians were part of the Catholic Church, with the change to Protestantism commencing in 1536.
In modern times, Norway – like many European countries – has seen a great decline in religiosity, at least among non-immigrant Norwegian endemics, and most Norwegians are irreligious: atheism and agnosticism are the most common metaphysical views according to Zuckerman.
According to the most recent Eurobarometer Poll of 2010, Phil Zuckerman, an Associate Professor of Sociology at Pitzer College, estimates atheism rates in Norway as ranging from 31 to 72%, based on various studies.
Norse religion developed from the common mythology of the Germanic people.
Scandinavian mythology and the relative importance of gods and heroes developed slowly.
Thus, the cult of Odin in Norway probably spread from Western Germany not long before they were written down.
Gods shown as minor gods such as Ullr, the fertility god Njord and Heimdall are likely to be older gods in Norway who lost popularity.
Other gods (or aesir, as they were called) worth mentioning are the thunder-god Thor and the love-goddess Freya.
Most information about Scandinavian mythology is contained in the old Norse literature including Norwegian literature, the Eddas and later sagas.
Other information comes from the Danish historian Saxo Grammaticus with fragments of legends preserved in old inscriptions.
Unfortunately, we know relatively little about old religious practices in Norway or elsewhere as most of the knowledge was lost in the gradual Christianisation.
Due to nationalistic movements in the late 18th century, Norwegian scholars found renewed interest for Norse religion, translating many of the myths to Danish (the written language in Norway at the time) and tried to use it to create a common Norwegian culture.
But Christianity was too deeply rooted in the society to accept such Paganism, and it only resulted in popularized legends.
Nowadays, a revival of the Old Norse religion, called Åsatru ("Faith of the Aesir") seeks to reconstruct the pre-Christian faith practiced in the Viking Age.
The Sámi followed a shamanistic religion based on nature worship.
The Sámi pantheon consisted of four general gods the Mother, the Father, the Son and the Daughter (Radienacca, Radienacce, Radienkiedde and Radienneida).
There was also a god of fertility, fire and thunder Horagalles, the sun goddess Beive and the moon goddess Manno as well as the goddess of death Jabemeahkka.
Like many pagan religions, the Sámi saw life as a circular process of life, death and rebirth.
The shaman was called a Noaidi and the traditions were passed on between families with an ageing Noaidi training a relative to take his or her place after he or she dies.
Training went on as long as the Noaidi lived but the pupil had to prove his or her skills before a group of Noaidi before being eligible to become a fully fledged shaman at the death of his or her mentor.
The Norwegian church undertook a campaign to Christianise the Sámi in the 16th and 17th century with most of the sources being missionaries.
While the vast majority of the Sámi in Norway have been Christianised, some of them still follow their traditional faith and some Noaidi are still practising their ancient religion.
Sami people are often more religious than Norwegians.
The conversion of Norway to Christianity began in 1000.
The raids on the British isles and on the Frankish kingdoms had brought the Vikings in touch with Christianity.
Haakon the Good of Norway who had grown up in England tried to introduce Christianity in the mid-10th century, but had met resistance from pagan leaders and soon abandoned the idea.
Anglo-Saxon missionaries from England and Germany had tried to convert Norwegians to Christianity but only had limited success.
However, they succeeded in converting Olaf I of Norway to Christianity.
Olaf II of Norway (later Saint Olaf) had more success in his attempts to convert the population with many Norwegians converting in the process, and he is credited with Christianizing Norway.
The Christians in Norway often established churches or other holy sites at places that had previously been sacred under the Norse religion.
The spread of conversion can be measured by burial sites as Pagans were buried with grave goods while Christians weren't.
Christianity had become well established in Norway by the middle of the 11th century and had become dominant by the middle of the 12th century.
Stave churches were built of wood without the use of nails in the 13th century.
The Norwegians were Catholic until the Danish king Christian III of Denmark ordered Denmark to convert to Lutheranism in 1536 and as Norway was then ruled by Denmark, the Norwegians converted as well.
The Danish Church Ordinance was introduced in 1537 and a Norwegian Church Council officially adopted Lutheranism in 1539.
Monasteries were dissolved and church property confiscated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Norway established and funded by the state.
Bishops still adhering to Catholicism were deposed with Olav, Archbishop of Nidaros fleeing the country in 1537 and another bishop dying in prison in 1542.
Catholicism held on remote parts of Norway for another couple of decades, although eventually the remaining Catholics converted or fled, to the Netherlands in particular.
Many pastors were replaced with Danes and Norwegian clergy being trained at the University of Copenhagen as Norway did not have a university.
The Danish translation of the Bible was used as were Danish catechisms and hymns.
The use of Danish in religious ceremonies had a strong influence on the development of the Norwegian language.
The church undertook a program to convert the Sámi in the 16th and 17th century with the program being largely successful.
The University of Oslo was established in 1811 allowing priests to train in Norway.
The Norwegian Constitution of 1814 did not grant religious freedom as it stated that Jews and Jesuits were denied entrance in Norway.
Moreover, adherence to Evangelical Lutheran Christianity was compulsory, and so was church attendance.
A ban on lay preaching was lifted in 1842, allowing several free church movements and a strong lay movement being established in the Evangelical Lutheran Church.
Three years later, the so-called Dissenter Law came into effect, allowing other Christian congregations to establish in Norway.
Atheism became allowed as well, and the ban on Judaism was lifted in 1851.
Monasticism and Jesuits were allowed starting in 1897 and 1956 respectively.
The Norwegian Constitution was amended in 1964 allowing freedom of religion; the exceptions are the Norwegian royal family, who are required by the Constitution to be Lutherans.
Furthermore, at least one half of the Government must belong to the state church.
On May 21, 2012 the constitution was again amended to increase the autonomy of the Evangelical Lutheran Church and decrease the connection to the state.
Church pastors were active in the Norwegian resistance movement during World War II.
The state church was also active in the moral debate which arose in the 1950s.
Islam is the largest non-Christian religion in Norway with about 2.4% of the population officially (about 121,000 people in 2013) and has increased by 30% since 2009.
In 2006, 56% lived in the counties of Oslo and Akershus.
Some sources report that the numbers are higher than those on the official records; the Pew Foundation calculates the number of Muslims in Norway for 2010 at about 144,000 and projects the numbers to reach 359,000 by 2030.
For 2013, Professor Leirvik of the University of Oslo estimates regarding the number of people of Muslim background though not necessarily practicing in Norway at about 220,000 including people from Pakistan, Somalia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Bosnia, Kosovo, Iran, and Morocco.
</ref> In the end of the 1990s, Islam passed the Roman Catholic Church and Pentecostalism to become the largest minority religion in Norway (though the Catholics have regained ground since), provided Islam is seen as one united grouping, as there are different denominations in existence, such as Sunni, Shia and Ahmadiyya.
In 2009, the registered Muslims were members of 126 different congregations.
There were never many Jews in Norway.
Although there are no indications of active persecution, Jews were banned from entering and residing in the dual monarchy of Denmark-Norway for long periods of time.
After the split with Denmark in 1814, the new Norwegian Constitution included a notorious paragraph that banned Jews and Jesuits from entering the realm.
The paragraph, which was abolished with regard to Jews in 1851 after strong political debate, appears to have been primarily aimed at the Jewish Messianic revival movements in Eastern Europe at the time, since the Sephardi and Western European Jews in many cases seem to have been exempted.
Shechita, Jewish kosher slaughter, has been banned in Norway since 1929, 741 Norwegian Jews were murdered during the Nazi occupation of Norway during World War II, and in 1946 there were only 559 Jews registered living in Norway.
Hinduism is a minority faith in Norway.75% of Hindus are from Sri Lanka.There are 4 Hindu temples in Norway.The Vishwa Hindu Parishad is registered in Norway and ISKCON has a centre in the country.
The Bahá'í Faith in Norway began with contact between traveling Scandinavians with early Persian believers of the Bahá'í Faith in the mid-to-late 19th century.
Bahá'ís first visited Scandinavia in the 1920s following `Abdu'l-Bahá's, then head of the religion, request outlining Norway among the countries to which Bahá'ís should pioneer and the first Bahá'í to settle in Norway was Johanna Schubartt.
Following a period of more Bahá'í pioneers coming to the country, Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies spread across Norway while the national community eventually formed a Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly in 1962.
In 2013 there were around 1100 Bahá'ís in the country.
The Evangelical Lutheran Church is still established and administered through a Government department.
There is, however, an ever ongoing political debate on separation of church and state.
The state also supports religious aid organisations such as Norwegian Church Aid financially.
Bishops are formally nominated by the Norwegian Monarch, who is the head of the church, and clerical salaries and pensions regulated by law.
Clergy train in the theological faculties of the University of Oslo and the University of Tromsø, as well as Misjonshøgskolen (School of Mission and Theology) in Stavanger and Menighetsfakultetet (MF Norwegian School of Theology) in Oslo.
Menighetsfakultetet is by far the most important educational institution for the Norwegian clergy.
Men and women can both become members of the clergy of the church.
The church has two sacraments namely Baptism and Holy Communion.
In Norway as of 2013, 76.1% of the population are members of the Evangelical Lutheran Church as compared to 96% in the 1960s.
Kevin Boyle's 1997 global study of freedom of religion states that "Most members of the state church are not active adherents, except for the rituals of birth, confirmation, weddings, and burials.
Some 3 per cent on average attend church on Sunday and 10 per cent on average attend church every month."
Other religious groups operate freely and people are also free not to be affiliated with any religion or life stance.
Approximately 13% are not members of any official religious or philosophical communities, while about 9% of the population are members of other religious or philosophical communities outside the Church of Norway.
Roman Catholics and Muslims are each about 2.4% of the population and have been rising rapidly in numbers in recent years.
About 1.7% of the population lists the Norwegian Humanist Association as a life stance instead of a religion.
Orthodox, Jews, Hindus, Buddhists and Sikhs are present in very small numbers, together comprising less than 1 percent of the population.
However officially belonging to a religion does not necessarily reflect actual religious beliefs and practices.
In 2005, a survey conducted by Gallup International in sixty-five countries indicated that Norway was the least religious country in Western Europe, with 29% counting themselves as believing in a church or deity, 26% as being atheists, and 45% not being entirely certain.
<gallery> Image:Ganeshatiller.JPG|A Hindu temple in Trondheim.
Image:Oslo OurSavioursOrthodoxChurch01.JPG|Orthodox church in Oslo.
Image:RS Honefoss.jpg|Jehovah's Witness Kingdom Hall in Hønefoss.
Image:Saint Paul Church Bergen Norway 2009 1.J JPG|Saint Paul Catholic Church, Bergen.
Image:StOlavsOsloFeb2009.jpg|St.
Olav's Cathedral in Oslo.
Image:Ahmadiyya mosque Oslo.jpg|Nor mosque in Oslo.
Image:Khuong Viet templet.jpg|Khuong Viet Buddhist Temple in Oslo.
In 2007, the European Court of Human Rights ruled in favor of Norwegian parents who had sued the Norwegian state.
The case was about a subject in compulsory school, kristendomskunnskap med religions- og livssynsorientering (Teachings of Christianity with orientation about religion and philosophy), KRL.
The applicants complained that the refusal to grant full exemption from KRL prevented them from ensuring that their children received an education in conformity with their atheist views and philosophical convictions.
A few years earlier, in 2004, the UN Committee on Human Rights in Geneva had given its support to the parents.
In 2008 the subject was renamed to Religion, livssyn og etikk (Religion, philosophy and ethics).
The majority of this course is however still tied to Christianity.
Philosophy and ethics are not properly introduced until after compulsory school.
The largest Christian school in Norway has 1,400 pupils and 120 employees.
Kristne Friskolers Forbund is an interest group of approximately 130 Christian schools and colleges, including 12 Christian private schools.
Brother Jeffrey Gros, FSC, (7 January 1938 – 12 August 2013) was an internationally renowned Catholic ecumenist and theologian.
An American and a member of the De La Salle Christian Brothers, Br.
Jeff had served as a high school history teacher, university professor, associate director of the Secretariat for Ecumenical and Interreligious Affairs at the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops; director of Faith and Order for the National Council of Churches; and president of the Society for Pentecostal Studies.
He is the author or editor of over 20 books, 310 articles, and an uncounted number of book reviews.
He died of pancreatic cancer in Chicago, IL, on 12 August 2013 at the age of 75.
Born John Jefferson Gros in Memphis, TN, to Jeff Gros and Faye (Dickinson) Gros, he entered the novitiate of the Christian Brothers in August 1955 in Glencoe, MO.
He made his perpetual vows in the same order in 1963 in Plano, IL.
He has one sister, Sister Joye Gros, OP.
He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree (in 1959) and a Master of Education focused in Biology Education (in 1962) from Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota; a Master of Arts in Theology from Marquette University in Milwaukee in 1965, with a thesis titled "Ministry and Orders in the United Presbyterian Church, USA".
He was awarded a Doctorate in Theology from Fordham University, New York, in 1973, for his dissertation "Transcendence and Community in Contemporary Social Theory: P. Berger and R. Bellah" under the direction of Wayne Proudfood.
He pursued graduate research in biology and the sciences at the University of Colorado in Boulder, CO and at the Illinois Institute of Technology from 1961–62.
He continued graduate work in science at Northwestern University in Chicago from 1962 to 1964.
Research and study grants took him to Hebrew Union College, Jerusalem (1968), Germany (1969), Costa Rica (1986), the Far East (1976), Latin America (1980, 2000), Africa (1988), Strasbourg Ecumenical Research Institute (1991), Columbia (2007) and Chile (2008).
Brother Jeff’s first responsibilities were as a high school teacher.
He spent three years at St. George High School in Evanston, IL (1959–1962), and then a year at the La Salle Institute in Glencoe, MO, finally a year at Christian Brothers College High School (CBCHS) in St. Louis, MO, before spending two years at Marquette to work on his MA in Theology.
On the completion of his master’s degree, he spent a year each teaching at his order’s novitiate in Glencoe, MO; at Lewis College in Romeoville, IL; back at CBCHS, and finally at the Christian Brothers College in Memphis, TN, before heading to Fordham for doctoral studies.
For two years (1970–1972), while writing his dissertation, he also worked as Director of Religious Education at St. Augustine Parish in the Bronx, NY.
Upon completion, he was called back to Memphis to serve as a teacher in, then chair of, the theology department at Christian Brothers College, where he served for nine years (1972–1981).
From 1975, he concurrently taught at Memphis Theological Seminary.
During these years, he also served as the director of diaconate formation for the diocese of Memphis.
Jeff was hired as the Executive Director of the Faith and Order Commission of the National Council of Churches (NCC), then headquartered in the Bronx.
At the same time, he assisted at the Church of the Good Shepherd, in Manhattan.
After a decade of leadership in the NCC, Br.
Jeff was asked to serve as Associate Director of the Secretariat for Ecumenical and Interreligious Affairs of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (then called the National Conference of Catholic Bishops).
He held this post, with responsibilities for ecumenical relations with the western churches and ecclesial communities (Anglican, Mainline Protestant, Evangelical, Pentecostal) until 2005.
At the age of 67, he “retired” to university and seminary teaching.
He spent four years as Distinguished Professor of Ecumenical and Historical Theology at Memphis Theological Seminary, which is affiliated with the Cumberland Presbyterian Church.
In 2009, he accepted a one-year appointment to the Franciscan School of Theology, part of the Graduate Theological Union, in Berkeley, CA, as Kenan Osborne Visiting Professor of Theology.
For the last two years of his life, Br.
Jeff taught at Lewis University in Romeoville, IL, as Catholic Studies Scholar in Residence.
He served at the same time as an adjunct professor at the Catholic Theological Union in Chicago, and as President of the Society for Pentecostal Studies.
Jeff had served several times on the board of the North American Academy of Ecumenists, including a term as president.
He was, since 1985, the dean of the USCCB Institute for Ecumenical Leadership, which provided training for diocesan ecumenical officers.
He had many professional memberships including the Catholic Theological Society of America (former Board Member), College Theological Society, National Association of Evangelicals, Catholic Association of Diocesan Ecumenical and Interreligious Officers (Associate).
He was deeply committed to the reception of ecumenical dialogues into religious education and pastoral practice, and worked tirelessly in developing and supporting new generations of ecumenists.
He was known for having an “encyclopedic knowledge of ecumenism” and was invited as keynote speaker for dialogues and conferences around the world.
He is interred at Resurrection Cemetery, Romeoville, IL.
Jeff published well over 300 papers and articles; He had book reviews published in over three dozen journals.
His first article was "Self Acceptance and Religious Maturity" in Spiritual Life, in the Summer of 1967.
His last was probably "Appreciating the Past and Looking to the Future" which he sent to Koinonia, the Newsletter of the Office of Ecumenism and Interreligious Dialogue published by the Paulist Fathers, just ten days before he died in August 2013.
Daniel, born Dan Ilie Ciobotea (born 22 July 1951) is the Patriarch of the Romanian Orthodox Church.
The elections took place on 12 September 2007.
Daniel won with a majority of 95 votes out of 161.
He was officially enthroned on 30 September 2007 in the Patriarchal Cathedral in Bucharest.
As such, his official title is "Archbishop of Bucharest, Metropolitan of Muntenia and Dobrogea, Locum tenens of the throne of Caesarea of Cappadocia, Patriarch of Romania".
Daniel Ciobotea was born in the village of Dobrești, Bara Commune, Timiș County, as the third son in the family of teacher Alexie and Stela Ciobotea.
He followed the Primary School in his home village (1958–1962) and the Gymnasium in Lăpușnic village (1962–1966), Timiș County.
In 1966 he began the High School courses in Buziaș, which he then continued in Lugoj, at the "Coriolan Brediceanu" High School (1967–1970).
After passing his Baccalaureate exam, he then joined the university-level Theological Institute in Sibiu (1970–1974), where he obtained his degree in Theology with specialization in the New Testament.
During the period 1974–1976 he followed the doctoral courses at the Theological Institute in Bucharest, Systematic Theology Section, under the supervision of Dumitru Stăniloae; he continued his studies abroad: two years at the Protestant Theology Faculty of the University of Human Studies in Strasbourg and another two years at the Albert Ludwig University in Freiburg im Breisgau, Catholic Theology Faculty.
His studies abroad prompted critics to argue that he collaborated with the Securitate, because during the rule of communist president Nicolae Ceauşescu, traveling and studying outside the Eastern Bloc was almost impossible for those who did not send informative notes to the Securitate.
Mircea Dinescu of the CNSAS however said that his Securitate file was burnt in December 1989 and as such, it can't be known whether he collaborated with it or not.
On 15 June 1979 he defended a Doctoral Dissertation at the Protestant Theology Faculty in Strasbourg, entitled: "Réflexion et vie chrétiennes aujourd'hui.
Essai sur le rapport entre la théologie et la spiritualité, 424 pp."
(Christian reflection and life today.
Essay on the relationship between theology and spirituality, 424 pp) The dissertation was prepared under the supervision of two well-known French professors: Gerard Ziegwald and André Benoit and it received high praise.
Thus he becomes Doctor of the Strasbourg University.
A more developed version of his doctoral dissertation was prepared under the guidance of his mentor, Dumitru Stăniloae and it was successfully defended on 31 October 1980 at the Orthodox Theological Institute in Bucharest under the title: "Teologie și spiritualitate creștină.
Raportul dintre ele și situația actuală" (Theology and Christian spirituality.
The relationship between them and the current situation).
Between 1980–1986, Dan Ilie Ciobotea served as lecturer at the Ecumenical Institute in Bossey, Switzerland, while from 1986–1988 he acted as the institute's Adjunct Director.
In 1987 he entered the monastic life in the Sihăstria Monastery in Romania and took the name Monk Daniel, having as his "monastic godfather" the well-known spiritual Archimandrite Cleopa Ilie.
In 1992 he started teaching Theology at the Dumitru Staniloae Faculty of Orthodox Theology in the Al.
I Cuza University in Iași.
Between 1 September 1988 – 1 March 1990, he was patriarchal counsellor and director of the Contemporary Theology and Ecumenical Dialogue Section in the Romanian Patriarchate.
In early 1990 he belonged to the short-lived Group for Reflection on Church Renewal where ironically he shared the same views for church reform with Bartolomeu Anania, who would become his rival in the race for patriarch in 2007.
In March 1990, Daniel was ordained as suffragan bishop of the Archbishopric of Timișoara.
Three months later, in June 1990, he was appointed Metropolitan of Moldova and Bukovina.
He founded the influential Radio Trinitas in 1998.
Daniel has also been questioned when using a paint-roller dipped in Holy Oil to bless new Radio and Television stations.
Between 5–8 October 2005, the Metropolitanate of Moldova and Bukovina co-organized with the Centre for Post-communist Studies (Canada, directed by Dr. Lavinia Stan and Dr. Lucian Turcescu) a prestigious international symposium on Church and State in Post-communist Eastern Europe.
On 12 September 2007, he was elected to take the lead of the Romanian Orthodox Church, after leading in all three rounds, ahead of the other candidates (Bartolomeu Anania, Metropolitan of Cluj and Ioan Selejean, Bishop of Covasna and Harghita).
Although appreciated for his intellectual skills and diplomacy, Daniel is regarded as a renovationist and iron-handed patriarch by traditionalists and various radicals, who accuse him of being a Freemason, of supporting ecumenism (considered a "heresy of our times"), and of planning to forcibly unite the Romanian Orthodox Church with the Roman Catholic Church, although he refuted the first allegation in a public statement.
Daniel and the Romanian Orthodox Church were criticized for their apparent lack of reaction in the aftermath of the Colectiv nightclub fire.
Thousands of demonstrators marched on Dealul Mitropoliei in central Bucharest, where the seat of the Church is located.
1980–1988 – Lector at the Ecumenical Institute in Bossey, Geneva and associate professor in Geneva and Fribourg, Switzerland; 1988 – Patriarchal Counselor, Director of the Sector of Contemporary Theology and Ecumenical Dialogue; 1988 – Conferent at the Catheder of Christian Mission of the Ecumenical Institute in Bucharest; 1990 (March) – elected and ordained Vicarius Bishop of the Archbishopric of Timișоаra; 1990 (June) – elected as Archbishop of Iași and Metropolitan of Moldova and Bukovina; since 1992 – Theology professor at the Orthodox Teology Faculty "Dumitru Stăniloae" of the "Alexandru Ioan Cuza" University in Iași; Representative of the National Synodal Commission for Religious Education Bucharest; President of the Theology and Liturgics Commission of the Holy Synod of the Romanian Orthodox Church Honorary Member of the National Commission for Historical Monuments Bucharest; Member of the Central and Executive Committee of the Ecumenical Council of Churches (Geneva, 1991–1998); Member of the Presidium of Superior and Central Committee of the European Church Conference (since 1990); Vicepresident of the Second General Meeting of the European Churches Conference (Graz, 1997); Full Member of the International Academy of Religious Sciences in Brussels (2000).
Philosophy of religion according to the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy is, "the philosophical examination of the central themes and concepts involved in religious traditions."
It is an ancient discipline, being found in the earliest known manuscripts concerning philosophy, and relates to many other branches of philosophy and general thought, including metaphysics, logic, and history.
The philosophy of religion differs from religious philosophy in that it seeks to discuss questions regarding the nature of religion as a whole, rather than examining the problems brought forth by a particular belief system.
It is designed such that it can be carried out dispassionately by those who identify as believers or non-believers.
Philosophy of religion has classically been regarded as a part of metaphysics.
In Aristotle's Metaphysics, the necessarily prior cause of eternal motion was an unmoved mover, who, like the object of desire, or of thought, inspires motion without itself being moved.
This, according to Aristotle, is God, the subject of study in theology.
Today, however, philosophers have adopted the term "philosophy of religion" for the subject, and typically it is regarded as a separate field of specialization, although it is also still treated by some, particularly Catholic philosophers, as a part of metaphysics.
Although the term did not come into general use until the nineteenth century, perhaps the earliest strictly philosophical writings about religion can be found in the Hindu Upanishads.
Around the same time, the works of Daoism and Confucianism also dealt, in part, with reasoning about religious concepts.
The Buddhist writing in the Pali canon "contains acute philosophical thinking", and "we have in Buddhism a very shrewd grasp of the nature of religion as philosophy illuminates it."
Philosophy of religion covers alternative beliefs about God, the varieties of religious experience, the interplay between science and religion, the nature and scope of good and evil, and religious treatments of birth, history, and death.
The field also includes the ethical implications of religious commitments, the relation between faith, reason, experience and tradition, concepts of the miraculous, the sacred revelation, mysticism, power, and salvation.
The philosophy of religion has been distinguished from theology by pointing out that, for theology, "its critical reflections are based on religious convictions".
Also, "theology is responsible to an authority that initiates its thinking, speaking, and witnessing ... [while] philosophy bases its arguments on the ground of timeless evidence."
Three considerations that are basic to the philosophy of religion concerning deities are: the existence of God, the nature of God, and the knowledge of God.
There are several main positions with regard to the existence of God that one might take: These are not mutually exclusive positions.
For example, agnostic theists choose to believe God exists while asserting that knowledge of God's existence is inherently unknowable.
Similarly, agnostic atheists reject belief in the existence of all deities, while asserting that whether any such entities exist or not is inherently unknowable.
The attempt to provide proofs or arguments for the existence of God is one aspect of what is known as natural theology or the natural theistic project.
This strand of natural theology attempts to justify belief in God by independent grounds.
There is plenty of philosophical literature on faith (especially fideism) and other subjects generally considered to be outside the realm of natural theology.
Perhaps most of philosophy of religion is predicated on natural theology's assumption that the existence of God can be justified or warranted on rational grounds.
There has been considerable philosophical and theological debate about the kinds of proofs, justifications and arguments that are appropriate for this discourse.
The philosopher Alvin Plantinga has shifted his focus to justifying belief in God (that is, those who believe in God, for whatever reasons, are rational in doing so) through Reformed epistemology, in the context of a theory of warrant and proper cognitive function.
Other reactions to natural theology are those of Wittgensteinian philosophers of religion, most notably D. Z. Phillips.
Phillips rejects "natural theology" and its evidentialist approach as confused, in favor of a grammatical approach which investigates the meaning of belief in God.
For Phillips, belief in God is not a proposition with a particular truth value, but a form of life.
Consequently, the question of whether God exists confuses the logical categories which govern theistic language with those that govern other forms of discourse (most notably, scientific discourse).
According to Phillips, the question of whether or not God exists cannot be "objectively" answered by philosophy because the categories of truth and falsity, which are necessary for asking the question, have no application in the religious contexts wherein religious belief has its sense and meaning.
In other words, the question cannot be answered because it cannot be asked without entering into confusion.
As Phillips sees things, the job of the philosopher is not to investigate the "rationality" of belief in God but to elucidate its meaning.
The problem of evil is the question of how to reconcile the existence of evil with that of a deity who is, in either absolute or relative terms, omnipotent, omniscient, and omnibenevolent.
An argument from evil attempts to show that the co-existence of evil and such a deity is unlikely or impossible if placed in absolute terms.
Attempts to show the contrary have traditionally been discussed under the heading of theodicy.
In Analytic Philosophy of Religion, James Franklin Harris noted that As with the study of ethics, early analytic philosophy tended to avoid the study of philosophy of religion, largely dismissing (as per the logical positivists view) the subject as part of metaphysics and therefore meaningless.
The collapse of logical positivism renewed interest in philosophy of religion, prompting philosophers like William Alston, John Mackie, Alvin Plantinga, Robert Merrihew Adams, Richard Swinburne, and Antony Flew not only to introduce new problems, but to re-open classical topics such as the nature of miracles, theistic arguments, the problem of evil, (see existence of God) the rationality of belief in God, concepts of the nature of God, and many more.
Plantinga, Mackie and Flew debated the logical validity of the free will defense as a way to solve the problem of evil.
Alston, grappling with the consequences of analytic philosophy of language, worked on the nature of religious language.
Adams worked on the relationship of faith and morality.
Analytic epistemology and metaphysics has formed the basis for a number of philosophically-sophisticated theistic arguments, like those of the reformed epistemologists like Plantinga.
Analytic philosophy of religion has also been preoccupied with Ludwig Wittgenstein, as well as his interpretation of Søren Kierkegaard's philosophy of religion.
Using first-hand remarks (which would later be published in Philosophical Investigations, Culture and Value, and other works), philosophers such as Peter Winch and Norman Malcolm developed what has come to be known as contemplative philosophy, a Wittgensteinian school of thought rooted in the "Swansea tradition" and which includes Wittgensteinians such as Rush Rhees, Peter Winch and D. Z. Phillips, among others.
The name "contemplative philosophy" was first coined by D. Z. Phillips in Philosophy's Cool Place, which rests on an interpretation of a passage from Wittgenstein's "Culture and Value."
This interpretation was first labeled, "Wittgensteinian Fideism," by Kai Nielsen but those who consider themselves Wittgensteinians in the Swansea tradition have relentlessly and repeatedly rejected this construal as a caricature of Wittgenstein's considered position; this is especially true of D. Z. Phillips.
Responding to this interpretation, Kai Nielsen and D.Z.
Phillips became two of the most prominent philosophers on Wittgenstein's philosophy of religion.
"The burden of evidence lies with the editor who adds or restores material.
All quotations and any material challenged or likely to be challenged must be attributed to a reliable, published source using an inline citation."
Navajo Nation v. U.S. Forest Service was brought to the U.S. Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit in 2007.
It was a case that was brought about by previous cases dealing with the expansion of the Snowbowl ski resort on the government-owned sacred lands of the Navajo peoples located in northern Arizona.
In Navajo Nation v. U.S. Forest Service, the conflict furthered by the Federal governments use of artificial snow containing treated sewage on the sacred San Francisco Peaks, an area that is owned by the federal government.
The Navajo people, along with twelve other nations, made the appeal, citing that the use of sewage water is violating the Religious Freedom Restoration Act.
The proposal that the U.S. government approved consists of pumping 1.5 million gallons of sewage effluent per day from the nearby city of Flagstaff, Arizona to the peaks in order to manufacture artificial snow for the Snowbowl.
The purpose of the plan is to improve the economic viability of the ski resort, which has suffered diminished profits from decreased annual snowfall.
The tribes of the Navajo Nation initiated a suit against the U.S. Forest Service under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act.
In 2007, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals had ruled favorably for the tribes.
It held that the proposed use of treated sewage water would impose a "substantial burden" on the exercise of religion for the native nations.
This ruling was appealed on August 8, 2008, when the entire bench of the Ninth Circuit ruled that the use of recycled sewage water was not a "substantial burden" on the religious freedom of American Indians.
"Substantial burden," the court argued, only occurred if an individual was forced to choose between following the tenets of his or her religious beliefs or receiving government benefit, or coerced to act contrary to his or her religious beliefs by the threat of civil or criminal sanctions.
The Native peoples petitioned for certiorari in June 2009, but the High Court denied the tribes' petition, upholding the Ninth Circuit Court's decision.
Native American Natural Resources Law-Royster
Margaret Kennedy Knight (née Horsey), (23 November 1903 &ndash; 10 May 1983), was a psychologist and humanist.
Born in Hertfordshire, England, Knight went to Girton College, Cambridge University, graduating in 1926.
In 1948 she gained a Master's degree.
In her third year at Cambridge that she found the "moral courage", as she put it, finally to abandon the religious beliefs she had long been uneasy with.
In the preface to her book Morals Without Religion (1955), she wrote, "a fresh, cleansing wind swept through the stuffy room that contained the relics of my religious beliefs.
I let them go with a profound sense of relief, and ever since I have lived happily without them."
Between 1926 and 1936 Margaret worked as a librarian, information officer and editor for journal published by the National Institute of Industrial Psychology.
She married her husband Arthur Rex Knight in 1936, then in 1938 she started working alongside him as an assistant lecturer in psychology at the University of Aberdeen, Scotland.
Ten years later in 1948 she was promoted to lecturer in psychology, a post she held till her retirement in 1970.
In collaboration with her husband, Knight wrote A Modern Introduction to Psychology (1948), which went through many editions.
An advocate of Scientific Humanism, Knight gave two short radio talks on the BBC Home Service in 1955 under the title Morals Without Religion.
The first talk was broadcast on 5 January and caused a storm of controversy.
The Sunday Graphic headline described her as "The Unholy Mrs. Knight", and called her "a menace".
Al-Khisal (Arabic:الخصال) or The Book of Characters by Ibn Babawayh is a book about morals and religious beliefs.
Al-Khisal contains narrations about ethics, religious beliefs, and other subjects.
The book has 26 numbered parts and includes 1,225 hadith.
In Al-Khisal, Shaykh Saduq has prepared a collection of traditions in an interesting way.
The main themes of the traditions are ethics, manners and good characteristics.
All the traditions are presented with a complete record of transmission.
Furthermore, they are divided into different groups according to numbers e.g.
all the traditions related to the number one are gathered in one part then traditions related to number two and so on.
It starts with one and ends with one million.
Al-Khisal seems to be the first on record to be compiled with this style.
Moreover, Al-Khisal is a great encyclopedia on Islamic knowledge and many authoritative works on Shi'ite traditions such as Bihar Al-Anwar have cited it as a reference.Shaykh Saduq reports:Investigating in works of precedent man of religious sciences and Islamic sages, I find out that they wrote many books in different part of science but it was not written by them along with relations between numbers and good or bad characters alike.
I write a book with this harmony for the sake of nearing to Allah.< While a short book, Al-Khisal is nonetheless counted as a great encyclopedia for Islamic knowledge and forbidden, permissible judgment.
It refers also to historical, interpretative, philosophical points and political subjects in the preface, written by Sayyed Ahmad Fehri Zanjani.
Also we found interesting book about the Hadith school of Qom.
Along with other books oby Ibn Babawayh, Al-Khisal has been studied by jurists and theologians.
Most of the book's narrations have been reported by other authentic Shiite books, such as The Four Books and Bihar al-Anwar.
Islam is the largest religion in Sierra Leone, with significant Christian and animist minorities.
According to a 2015 estimate from the Pew Research Centre, 78.0% of the population is Muslim, 20.9% is Christian, while the rest of the population is either animist or follows other religious beliefs.
While this estimate is based on census data, a similar estimate was derived from a recent major household survey: in the 2013 Demographic and Health Survey, 78.2% of respondents were Muslim and 21.2% Christian.
Other sources give different estimates.
Muslims are estimated to comprise 60% of Sierra Leone's population according to the US Department of State, while 20 to 30% are reported to be followers of Christianity, and 5 to 10% of the population practice indigenous animist beliefs.
The 2007 UNHCR's "Report on International Religious Freedom in Sierra Leone" estimated 55% Muslim, 40% Christian and 5% other beliefs, with many citizens practising a mixture of Islam and traditional indigenous religious beliefs or Christianity and traditional indigenous beliefs.
Muslims predominate in all of the country's three provinces and the Western Area, though formerly they were concentrated in the north with the south being mainly Christian.
The vast majority of Sierra Leonean Muslims are Sunni of Maliki school of jurisprudence; while small minorities are Shia and Ahmadiyya.
The vast majority of Sierra Leonean Christians are Protestants, of which the largest are Methodists and Evangelicals.
Other Christian protestant denominations in the country include Presbyterian, Baptists, Seventh-day Adventist and Lutheran Catholics are the second largest non protestant Christians division in Sierra Leone at about 5% of the country's population.
The Jehovah’s Witnesses, Anglicans and Latter-day Saints form a small minority of the Christian population in Sierra Leone.
The constitution of Sierra Leone provides for freedom of religion and the government generally protects this right and does not tolerate its abuse.
A language/culture-based charter school is a charter school whose curriculum is based on the language and culture of a specific ethnic nation or group of nations, although the schools are open to students of all ethnic backgrounds.
A review by the Washington advocacy group, National Alliance for Public Charter Schools, found that among the more than 4,600 charters nationwide, 113 have mission statements specifying such ethnic cultural themes.
These include the Amber Charter School in the Washington Heights neighborhood of Manhattan, the Eugenio Maria de Hostos Charter School in Rochester, New York, both of which feature instruction in Spanish and in Hispanic cultures, the Ben Gamla Charter School, the country’s first Hebrew language charter school, which opened in Hollywood, Florida, in 2007, the Tarek ibn Ziyad Academy, the Pioneer Valley Chinese Immersion Charter School, where by grade six all subjects except English language arts will be taught in Chinese, and the Hellenic Classical Charter School in Brooklyn, New York.
A language/culture-based charter school is similar in many respects to a religious charter school.
Lawrence D. Weinberg, in his book Religious Charter Schools: Legalities and Practicalities, argues that a charter school can be religious in many ways and that charter schools may accommodate religious beliefs, but not endorse religious beliefs.
Religious charter schools would include Catholic schools that converted to charters as happened in Washington, D.C. and some Hebrew or Arabic language schools.
Sociology of Religion is a 1920 book by Max Weber, a German economist and sociologist.
The original edition was in German.
Max Weber studied the effects of religious action and inaction.
He views religion by simply categorized different religions in order to fully understand religion's subjective meaning to the individual (Verstehen).
By viewing religion strictly in the scientific sense, Weber was striving for objectivity, attempting to ignore value judgments, and to understand religion as those human responses that give meaning to the inescapable problems of existence, such as birth, death, illness, aging, injustice, tragedy, and suffering.
In The Sociology of Religion, Weber proposes that people pursue their own goals, and that religion facilitates that.
He shows how early religious beliefs stem from the work of skillful, charismatic individuals, and how their actions are eventually transformed into a systematic, church-based religion - in other words, how religion begins with charismatic authority and is transformed into traditional authority.
Because religion enables people to pursue their interests, Weber believed that religion actually gave rise to the spread of modern capitalism, as he asserted in The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
This writing illustrated the way in which religious beliefs steered the direction of the economic and technological forces that were already in motion.
Max Weber takes an objective, distant view of the sociological traditions of the institution of religion.
He is standing on the outside, looking in, contrary to the believers whose journey of faith causes them to examine their religion from within.
This detached, objective view of religion embodies the objective, modernist practice of the sociological perspective of religion today.
Willoughby v. Stever, 504 F.2d 271 (D. C. Cir.
1974) was a 1973 American legal decision in a case brought by evangelist William Willoughby against the National Science Foundation director H. Guyford Stever and the Board of Regents of the University of Colorado for using taxpayer money to fund textbooks developed by the Biological Sciences Curriculum Study (BSCS) because they included evolution instruction.
Willoughby claimed the pro-evolution curriculum was by extension also promoting secular humanism as the "official religion of the United States," and thus violated the Establishment clause of the US Constitution.
Willoughby accused scientists of "intellectual snobbery", and opposed tax revenues going to support education offensive to his religious views.
He argued that creationist education should be given the same tax payer funding as evolution education.
The lawsuit was dismissed by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia on the grounds that the textbooks disseminated science, not religion.
The Court also held that the Constitution's First Amendment prohibited states from demanding textbook teachings align with the religious beliefs of any particular group or individual.
The District Court ruling was upheld by the United States Court of Appeals District of Columbia Circuit on October 23, 1974.
The United States Supreme Court later refused to hear the case.
Victoria Le Page (born in 1919 in Melbourne, Australia) is an Australian spiritual writer.
She was raised in a fundamentalist Protestant church being very religious as a child.
At 21 an illumination of consciousness descended on her for two days, which changed the course of her life.
This resulted in out-of-the-body flights across the world to a place referred to as “Night-School”.
There she was taught sacred dances, and later on a body of knowledge that included things about the earth of a cosmological and geological nature not yet known to the physical sciences.
In 1940 during an out of body experience, she was shown a place that lay in Central Asia and was called Shambhala.
She now believes this opening up of Shambhala to young uninitiated souls led to the birth of the New Age movement of the sixties and to avant-garde scientists who began to revolutionize the physical sciences.
During this early period she became aware of her future spiritual Teacher.
He was Indonesian and in fact came to the West twenty years later to establish an esoteric movement that taught a new kind of spiritual practice (Subud).
In 1961 she was able to join the Teacher who had been assigned to her and remained for many years in the Australian school he founded.
The practices taught, centered on an awakening of spiritual energy in the heart.
The physical, emotional and mental bodies are all affected, sometimes dramatically.
From 1964 onward she visited Indonesia for fairly long periods at a time, living in various villages in Java and becoming acquainted with some of its many occult sects and the religious beliefs.
<blockquote> "From 1964 onward I visited Indonesia several times for fairly long periods at a time, living in various villages in Java and becoming acquainted with some of its many occult sects and the religious beliefs, its people have evolved from a creative synthesis of animism, Hindu-Buddhism, Islam, Taoism, Christianity and Theosophy.
"[ For the past twenty years she has moved among a number of other spiritual paths and begun late in life what has developed into a literary career.
Deborah, Lady Moody (born Deborah Dunch) (1586–1659?)
was the only woman to start a village in colonial America; she was the first female landowner in the New World.
She had an unusual influence in a society dominated by men, and was described by contemporaries as "a dangerous woman."
Deborah was born in London in 1586, the daughter of Walter Dunch of Avebury Manor in Wiltshire and his wife, Deborah, the daughter of James Pilkington, Bishop of Durham.
Walter's father was Sir William Dunch, the Auditor of the Royal Mint.
Deborah married Sir Henry Moody, a marriage that granted her the formal title of Lady.
She became a widow by 1629.
Lady Moody left England in 1639 due to religious persecution having adopted Anabaptist beliefs.
She settled first in Saugus, Massachusetts, but left there in 1643 after being admonished by the Puritan leaders for failing to conform to their religious beliefs.
Many others with the same religious beliefs left with her.
She led a group of religious dissenters fleeing persecution to found the town of Gravesend in 1643, in the Dutch colony of New Netherland.
Today the area is part of Brooklyn in New York City, with the original town square still evident in the street layout.
The people from Gravesend were granted religious freedom, which was unusual for that period, and the Quaker faith took root among them.
Deborah Moody became influential in New Netherland and had good relations with governor Peter Stuyvesant.
She is believed to be buried in Old Gravesend Cemetery.
In 2014, Moody was recognized for her work founding the town of Gravesend, a winning site of Built by Women New York City, a competition launched by the Beverly Willis Architecture Foundation during the fall of 2014 to identify outstanding and diverse sites and spaces designed, engineered and built by women.
Ernest George Trobridge (1884&ndash;1942)  was an architect and developer.
He was active in domestic architecture during the first half of the 20th century, especially in the North Western suburbs of London.
Trobridge was an adherent of Swedenborgianism and it may have been his religious beliefs which led him to be interested in domestic architecture for working-class people.
He undertook his first major building works in the 1920s, when new homes were needed for ex-servicemen.
Bricks, the usual building material for housing, were in short supply so Trobridge used elm timber which was readily available at the time, and built inexpensive timber framed, timber clad, thatch-roofed houses in the London suburb of Kingsbury.
These properties were technically highly innovative.
The green elm timber was cut in a special way so that shrinkage could be accommodated, and the thatch contained a patent fire extinguishing sprinkler system.
In the thirties bricks became more readily available and the pressure on land around London meant that working-class families needed flats rather than houses.
Trobridge developed blocks of flats in the form of romantic cottages, castles and baronial halls, again mostly in Kingsbury.
His work often included unusual forms and references to historical building types.
Trobridge's working methods were unusual for the time: he employed disabled ex-servicemen and insisted on paying full union rates to all his employees.
Trobridge was born in Northern Ireland; his father was the landscape artist and Swedenborg biographer George F. Trobridge (1856–1909).
He married Jennie Pulsford in 1912.
They had six children, four of whom survived him.
Because of his Swedenborgian religious beliefs Trobridge was a lifelong vegetarian.
He would not take the insulin that he needed for his diabetes and died of this condition in 1942.
Trobridge's legacy includes a large number of unusual homes in the NW suburbs of London and elsewhere in England, including several which are Listed Buildings.
Exhibitions have been held about Trobridge's work in Oxford in 1982, Edinburgh in 1983  and in the London Borough of Brent in 2010.
Mystery religions, sacred mysteries or simply mysteries, were religious schools of the Greco-Roman world for which participation was reserved to initiates (mystai).
The main characterization of this religion is the secrecy associated with the particulars of the initiation and the ritual practice, which may not be revealed to outsiders.
The most famous mysteries of Greco-Roman antiquity were the Eleusinian Mysteries, which were of considerable antiquity and predated the Greek Dark Ages.
The mystery schools flourished in Late Antiquity; Julian the Apostate in the mid 4th century is known to have been initiated into three distinct mystery schools — most notably the Mithraic Mysteries.
Due to the secret nature of the school, and because the mystery religions of Late Antiquity were persecuted by the Christian Roman Empire from the 4th century, the details of these religious practices are derived from descriptions, imagery and cross-cultural studies.
"Because of this element of secrecy, we are ill-informed as to the beliefs and practices of the various mystery faiths.
We know that they had a general likeness to one another".
Justin Martyr in the 2nd century explicitly noted and identified them as "demonic imitations" of the true faith, and that "the devils, in imitation of what was said by Moses, asserted that Proserpine was the daughter of Jupiter, and instigated the people to set up an image of her under the name of Kore" (First Apology).
Through the 1st to 4th century, Christianity stood in direct competition for adherents with the mystery schools, insofar as the "mystery schools too were an intrinsic element of the non-Jewish horizon of the reception of the Christian message".
They too were "embraced by the process of the inculturation of Christianity in its initial phase", and they made "their own contribution to this process".
In Klauck and McNeil's opinion, "the Christian doctrine of the sacraments, in the form in which we know it, would not have arisen without this interaction; and Christology too understood how to 'take up' the mythical inheritance, purifying it and elevating it".
The term "Mystery" derives from Latin mysterium, from Greek mysterion (usually as the plural mysteria μυστήρια), in this context meaning "secret rite or doctrine".
An individual who followed such a "Mystery" was a mystes, "one who has been initiated", from myein "to close, shut", a reference to secrecy (closure of "the eyes and mouth") or that only initiates were allowed to observe and participate in rituals.
The Mysteries were thus schools in which all religious functions were closed to the uninitiated and for which the inner workings of the school were kept secret from the general public.
Mystery religions form one of three types of Hellenistic religion, the others being the imperial cult or ethnic religion particular to a nation or state, and the philosophic religions such as Neoplatonism.
This is also reflected in the tripartite division of "theology" by Varro, in civil theology (concerning the state religion and its stabilizing effect on society), natural theology (philosophical speculation about the nature of the divine) and mythical theology (concerning myth and ritual).
The mystery schools offered a niche for the preservation of ancient religious ritual, and there is reason to assume that they were very conservative.
The Eleusian Mysteries persisted for more than a millennium, more likely close to two millennia, during which period the ritual of public religion changed significantly, from the religions of the Bronze to Early Iron Age to the Hero cult of Hellenistic civilization and again to the imperial cult of the Roman era, while the ritual performances of the mysteries for all we know remained unchanged.
"They had, more often than not, come up from a barbarous underworld.
The mysteries at Eleusis near Athens lasted for a thousand years; and there is reason to believe that they changed little during that long period".
For this reason, what glimpses we do have of the older Greek mysteries have been taken as reflecting certain archaic aspects of common Indo-European religion, with parallels in Indo-Iranian religion.
The mystery schools of Greco-Roman antiquity include the Eleusinian Mysteries, the Dionysian Mysteries, and the Orphic Mysteries.
Some of the many divinities that the Romans nominally adopted from other cultures also came to be worshipped in Mysteries, for instance, Egyptian Isis, Persian Mithraic Mysteries, Thracian/Phrygian Sabazius, and Phrygian Cybele.
The ancient mystery schools were a subject of fascination for 19th and early-20th century German and French classical scholars.
This literature had an enormous influence on European culture in the late 19th century.
Psychiatrist and psychoanalyst Carl Gustav Jung borrowed metaphors from this literature to reframe his theories and the charismatic movement based on them.
Gro Steinsland (born 1945) is a Norwegian scholar of medieval studies and history of religion and since August 2009 has been the Scientific Director of the Centre for Advanced Study at the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.
Steinsland has most recently been a professor in the Institute for Linguistic and Nordic Studies at the University of Oslo, where she was also a member of the international interdepartmental Centre for Studies in the Viking Age and Nordic Middle Ages from its founding in 1993 until its dissolution.
She has also taught in the Institute for Religious Studies at the University of Tromsø and has held guest faculty positions at Linacre College, Oxford University and at the University of Bonn.
In 2007/08 she led the international interdisciplinary research group in "The Power of the Ruler and the Ideology of Rulership in Nordic Culture 800-1200" at the Centre for Advanced Study of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, and since 1 August 2009 has been its Scientific Director.
Steinsland specialises in pre-Christian religion, the associated Old Norse texts and mythology and the conversion of Scandinavia.
At both Oslo and Tromsø, she made Norse religion a main subject within the history of religion programme.
She is a member of the group for theology and religious studies in the Academy of Science and Letters.
As a historian of religion, her publications take Norse paganism seriously and present it in a non-traditional light as having been still strong and vital when it encountered Christianity.
In 2005 she published a wideranging introductory book, Norrøn religion (Norse religion), which presents the subject from the perspective of myth and praxis.
In her influential 1989 PhD dissertation, Det hellige bryllup og norrøn kongeideologi: en analyse av hierogami-myten i Skírnismál, Ynglingatal, Háleygjatal og Hyndluljód (the sacred marriage and Norse ideology of kingship: an analysis of the myth of the hieros gamos in Skírnismál, Ynglingatal, Háleygjatal and Hyndluljóð), she reinterpreted the sacred marriage between a god and a giantess as a power myth legitimising rulership rather than a fertility myth; she specialises in the interpretation of written sources but has also made extensive use of archaeology and frequently takes an interdisciplinary approach.
She has also emphasised the female aspect of pre-Christian religion, particularly in her 1997 book Eros og død i norrøne myter (Eros and death in Norse myths), in which she contrasts the sexualisation of death in, for example, references to drowning as being embraced by the sea goddess Rán with the post-conversion view of female sexuality as shameful.
Steinsland has also readily written newspaper opinion articles, for example in 2000 taking the position that Thor Heyerdahl's Odin expedition to Azerbaijan was a "charade" orchestrated by Snorri Sturluson.
Christian Education South Africa v Minister of Education is an important case in South African law.
It was heard in the Constitutional Court, by Chaskalson P, Langa DP, Goldstone J, Madala J, Mokgoro J, Ngcobo J, O'Regan J, Sachs J, Yacoob J and Cameron AJ, on 4 May 2000, with judgment handed down on 18 August.
FG Richings SC (with him AM Achtzehn) appeared for the appellant, and MNS Sithole SC (with him BJ Pienaar) for the respondent.
The central question to be answered in the present appeal, from a decision in a Local Division, was whether, when Parliament enacted the South African Schools Act (wherein it prohibited corporal punishment in schools), it had violated the rights of parents of children at independent schools who, in line with their religious convictions, had consented to its use.
The appellant averred that corporal correction was an integral part of the active Christian ethos which it sought to provide its learners and that the blanket prohibition of its use in its schools invaded individual and parental and community rights to practise religion freely.
Having been unsuccessful in the court a quo, the appellant was granted leave to appeal to the Constitutional Court on the grounds that the blanket prohibition contained in section 10 of the Act infringed the provisions in the Constitution relating to The respondent contended that it was the infliction of corporal punishment, not its prohibition, which infringed constitutional rights.
He argued that the appellant's claim to be entitled to special exemption was inconsistent with the constitutional provisions relating to The respondent contended further that section 31(1) rights could not, in terms of the provisions of section 31(2), be exercised in a manner inconsistent with any provision of the Bill of Rights, and that the trend in democratic countries was to ban corporal punishment in schools, and finally that South Africa's obligations as signatory to various conventions required the abolition of corporal punishment in schools, since it involved subjecting children to violence and degrading punishment.
Inasmuch as the outlawing of corporal punishment limited other rights, such limitation was reasonable and justifiable in an open and democratic society based on human dignity, equality and freedom.
While the sincerity of the beliefs of the parents could not be doubted, nor their right to practise their religion in association with each other be disputed, and while the right of parents to administer corporal punishment at home was not challenged, such conduct was not appropriate in schools, nor in the education system.
In its argument that its rights of religious freedom, guaranteed by sections 15 and 31 of Constitution, had been infringed, the appellant argued that the rights in question should be viewed cumulatively.
It argued further that the corporal correction applied in its schools with the authorisation of the parent was not inconsistent with any provision of the Bill of Rights.
Accordingly, the qualification contained in section 31(2) did not apply.
The appellant argued further that, once it succeeded in establishing that the Act substantially impacted upon its sincerely held religious beliefs, the failure of the Act to provide an appropriate exemption could only pass constitutional muster if it were justified by a compelling state interest.
In response to this argument, the respondent contended that the governing provision was section 31, not section 15.
The corporal punishment was delivered in the context of the community activity in a school; accordingly, it could only attract constitutional protection if, in terms of section 31(2), it was not inconsistent with any other provision of the Bill of Rights.
Since corporal punishment violated the right to equality and the right to dignity, it forfeited any claim to constitutional regard.
It was argued in the alternative that, if corporal punishment at the appellant's schools did not violate the Bill of Rights, its prohibition by the Act was reasonable and justifiable in an open and democratic society.
The court noted that the matter concerned a multiplicity of intersecting constitutional values and interests, some overlapping and some competing.
The overlap and tension between the different clusters of rights reflected themselves in contradictory assessments of how the central constitutional value of dignity was implicated.
The interest protected by section 31 was not, the court found, a statistical one, dependent on a counterbalancing of numbers, but rather a qualitative one, based on respect for diversity.
Section 31(2) ensured that the concept of rights of members of communities that associated on the basis of language, culture and religion could not be used to shield practices which offended the Bill of Rights.
For the purposes of making a determination in the matter, the court found it necessary to adopt the approach most favourable to the appellant and assume, without deciding, that the appellant's religious rights under sections 15 and 31(1) were both in issue.
It was also necessary to assume, again without deciding, that corporal punishment as practised by the appellant's members was not inconsistent with any provision of the Bill of Rights as contemplated by section 31(2).
In the light of these assumptions, section 10 of the Act limited the parents' religious rights both under section 31 and under section 15.
The court held further that, in relation to the question of whether the limitation on the rights of the appellants could be justified in terms of section 36 of the Constitution, the relevant test was that limitations on constitutional rights could only pass constitutional muster if it was concluded that, considering the nature and importance of the right and the extent to which it was limited, such limitation was justified in relation to the purpose, importance and effect of the provision which resulted in the limitation, taking into account the availability of less restrictive means to achieve the relevant purpose.
Although there may be special problems attendant on undertaking the limitations analysis in respect of religious practices, the standard to be applied was the nuanced and contextual one required by section 36, not the rigid one of strict scrutiny.
What was in issue was not so much whether a general prohibition on corporal punishment in schools could be justified, but whether the impact of such a prohibition on the religious beliefs and practices of the members of the appellant could be justified under the limitations test of section 36.
The proportionality exercise had to relate to whether the failure to accommodate the appellant's religious belief and practice by means of the exemption prayed for could be accepted as reasonable and justifiable in an open and democratic society based on human dignity, freedom and equality.
While the relevant parents could no longer authorise teachers to apply corporal punishment in their name pursuant to their beliefs, they were not being deprived by the Act of their general right and capacity to bring up their children according to their Christian beliefs.
The effect of the Act was limited merely to preventing them from empowering the schools to administer corporal punishment.
The respondent had established that the prohibition of corporal punishment was part and parcel of a national program to transform the education system and bring it into line with the letter and spirit of the Constitution.
The creation of uniform norms and standards for all schools was crucial for educational development, as was a coherent and principled system of discipline.
The state was also under a constitutional duty to take steps to help diminish the amount of public and private violence in society generally, and to protect all people, especially children, from maltreatment, abuse or degradation.
Furthermore, in every matter concerning a child, the child's best interests were of paramount importance.
This principle was not excluded in cases where the religious rights of the parent were involved.
It was true that to single out a member of a religious community for disadvantageous treatment would, on the face of it, constitute unfair discrimination against that community.
The contrary, however, did not hold.
To grant respect to sincerely held religious views of a community, and make an exception from the general law to accommodate them, would not be unfair to anyone else who did not hold those views.
The essence of equality lay not in treating everyone in the same way, but in treating everyone with equal concern and respect.
Permission to allow the practice to continue would, in the circumstances, not be inconsistent with the equality provisions of the Bill of Rights.
The court held that the outlawing of physical punishment in the school represented more than a pragmatic attempt to deal with disciplinary problems in a new way.
It had a principled and symbolic function manifestly intended to promote respect for the dignity and physical and emotional integrity of all children.
The schools in question of necessity functioned in the public domain so as to prepare their learners for life in the broader society.
It was not unreasonable to expect those schools to make suitable adaptations in respect of non-discriminatory laws impacting on their codes of discipline.
The parents, furthermore, were not being obliged to make an absolute and strenuous choice between obeying a law of the land or following their conscience.
They could do both simultaneously.
What they were prevented from doing was authorising teachers, acting in their name and on school premises, to fulfil what they regarded as their conscientious and biblically-ordained responsibilities for the guidance of their children.
Save for this one aspect, the appellant's schools were not prevented from maintaining their specific Christian ethos.
The court decided, accordingly, that, when all the factors were weighed together, the scales came down firmly in favour of upholding the generality of the law in the face of the appellant's claim for a constitutionally compelled exemption.
The appeal was dismissed and the decision in the South Eastern Cape Local Division, in Christian Education South Africa v Minister of Education confirmed.
There was no curator ad litem representing the interests of the children, as it had been accepted in the court a quo that it was unnecessary to appoint one and that the state would represent the interests of the child.
However, the children concerned were from a highly conscientised community and many would have been in their late teens and capable of articulate expression.
Although both the state and the parents were in a position to speak on their behalf, neither was able to speak in their name.
A curator could have made sensitive enquiries so as to enable their voice or voices to be heard.
This, the court suggested, would have enriched the dialogue and the factual and experiential foundations for the balancing exercise undertaken in the instant matter would have been more secure.
The Basic Law, in accordance with tradition, declares that Islam is the state religion and that Shari'a is the source of legislation.
It also prohibits discrimination based on religion and provides for the freedom to practice religious rites as long as doing so does not disrupt public order.
The Government generally respected this right, but within defined parameters that placed limitations on the right in practice.
While the Government continued to protect the free practice of religion in general, it formalized previously unwritten prohibitions on religious gatherings in locations other than government-approved houses of worship, and on non-Islamic institutions issuing publications within their communities, without prior approval from the Ministry of Endowments and Religious Affairs (MERA).
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
The country has an area of and a population of 2.5 million, of whom 1.9 million are citizens.
The Government does not keep official statistics on religious affiliation, but most Omanis are either Ibadi 50% or Sunni Muslims 45% although there are small communities of 5% ethnically Indian Hindus and Christians that have been naturalized.
Ibadism historically has been Oman's dominant religious sect, and the Sultan is a member of the Ibadi community.
The Government, however, does not give official preference to any particular religious group.
Non-Ibadi and non-Sunni religious communities individually constitute less than 5 percent of the population and include, Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs, and Christians.
Christian communities are centered in the major urban areas of Muscat, Sohar, and Salalah and are represented by Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, and various Protestant congregations.
These groups tend to organize along linguistic and ethnic lines.
More than 50 different Christian groups, fellowships, and assemblies are active in the Muscat metropolitan area.
Shi'a Muslims are a small but well-integrated minority, concentrated in the capital area and along the northern coast.
The majority of non-Muslims, however, are noncitizen immigrant workers from South Asia.
There are also communities of ethnic Indian Hindus.
Muscat has two Hindu temples.
One of them is over a hundred years old.
There is also a significant Sikh community in Oman.
Though there are no permanent gurudwaras, many smaller gurudwaras in makeshift camps exist and are recognised by the government.
The Government of India had signed an accord in 2008 with the Omani government to build a permanent gurudwara but little progress has been made on the matter.
The Basic Law declares that Islam is the state religion and that Shari'a (Islamic law) is the source of legislation.
It also prohibits discrimination against individuals on the basis of religion or religious identity and provides for the freedom to practice religious rites so long as doing so does not disrupt public order.
In May 2006 the MERA issued a circular to non-Muslim religious leaders and diplomatic missions, reaffirming the individual's right to practice his or her own religious activities according to his or her values, customs, and traditions; however, the circular informed them that gatherings of a religious nature are not allowed in private homes or any other locations except government-approved houses of worship.
The circular, which formalized existing, but unwritten, government policy, also prohibits non-Islamic institutions from issuing publications within their communities without prior ministerial approval.
All religious organizations must be registered and licensed by the MERA.
The Ministry recognizes the Protestant Church of Oman, the Catholic Diocese of Oman, the al Amana Center (interdenominational Christian), the Hindu Mahajan Association, and the Anwar al-Ghubaira Trading Company in Muscat (Sikh) as the official sponsors for non-Islamic religious communities.
Groups seeking licensure must request meeting and worship space from one of these sponsor organizations, which are responsible for recording the group's doctrinal adherence, the names of its leaders, and the number of active members and submitting this information to the Ministry.
Members of non-Islamic communities were free to maintain links with fellow adherents abroad and undertake foreign travel for religious purposes.
The Government permitted clergy from abroad to enter the country, under the sponsorship of licensed religious organizations, for the purposes of teaching or leading worship.
Officials at the MERA claim that there is no limit on the number of groups that can be licensed.
New religious groups unaffiliated with one of the main communities must gain ministerial approval before receiving a license.
While the Government has not published the rules, regulations, or criteria for approval, the Ministry generally considers the group's size, theology or belief system, and availability of other worship opportunities before granting approval.
The Ministry employs similar criteria before granting approval for new Muslim groups to form.
According to government regulations, mosques must be built at least 1 kilometer apart and only on government-owned land.
Religious leaders of all faiths must be licensed with the MERA.
The Ministry has a formal licensing process for Muslim imams, however unlicensed lay members are not prohibited from leading prayers in mosques.
Lay members of non-Islamic communities may lead worship if they are specified as leaders in their group's licensing application.
Foreigners on tourist visas are prohibited from preaching, teaching, or leading worship.
Apostasy is not a criminal offense under Omani law.
Citizens who convert from Islam to another faith, however, generally face problems under Oman's Personal Status and Family Legal Code, which specifically prohibits a father who leaves the Islamic faith from retaining paternal rights over his children.
The law does not prohibit proselytizing, but the MERA will stop individuals or groups from engaging in it if the Ministry receives complaints.
The Government uses immigration regulations and laws against harassment to enforce the Ministry's policy.
Article 209 of the Penal Code assigns a prison sentence and fine to anyone who publicly blasphemes God or His prophets, commits an affront to religions and faiths by spoken or written word, or breaches the peace of a lawful religious gathering; this could be used to limit religious expression.
However, there were no reports of any prosecutions under this statute during the reporting period.
The Ministry reviews all imported religious material for approval.
Laws governing family and personal status are adjudicated by Oman's civil courts, according to the Personal Status and Family Legal Code, which is based on the principles of Shari'a.
Some aspects of the code discriminate against women, particularly by favoring male heirs in adjudicating inheritance claims.
While there was continuing reluctance to take an inheritance dispute to court, for fear of alienating the family, women increasingly were aware of, and took steps to protect and exercise, their rights as citizens.
Article 282 of the code exempts non-Muslims from the code's provisions, allowing them to follow their own religious rules pertaining to family or personal status.
Instruction in Islam is mandatory in the basic curriculum in all public school grades K-12.
Non-Muslim students are allowed to opt out of the public school system and attend private schools that do not offer instruction in Islam.
Non-Muslim members of the military are also exempt from otherwise mandatory Islamic studies.
Military bases maintain at least one mosque and one imam for the convenience of military personnel.
Training facilities dedicate approximately three sessions per week for the study of Islamic subjects.
While non-Muslim members of the military were not prohibited from practicing their own religion, the military did not provide them with alternative places of worship on base.
The Government sponsored fora for examining differing interpretations of Islam, and government-sponsored interfaith dialogues took place on a regular basis.
Private groups that promote interfaith dialogue were permitted to exist, as long as discussions did not constitute an attempt to cause Muslims to recant their Islamic beliefs.
During the reporting period, the MERA hosted several Christian and Muslim scholars and lecturers of various schools of thought to discuss interfaith relations and tolerance in Islamic traditions.
The Islamic holy days of Eid al-Adha, Islamic (Hijra) New Year, the Birth of the Prophet Muhammad, Ascension Day, and Eid al-Fitr are national holidays.
While the Government generally respected the freedom of religion, some government procedures and policies placed limitations on religious practice.
The prohibition on group worship in private homes or other locations limited the ability of some adherents who were physically distant from those locations or who lacked reliable transportation to practice their faith collectively.
There were reports that government officials monitored and stopped several small groups from meeting in unsanctioned locations during the reporting period.
On the whole, churches and temples voluntarily abided by the May 2006 circular, taking steps to enforce the prohibitions among groups under their sponsorship and provide space on their compounds for worship; however, the lack of sufficient space in the existing locations sanctioned by the Government for collective worship, as well as long waiting lists for use of these facilities, effectively limited the number of groups that could operate.
The MERA approved a limited number of "church visas" to professional clergy of non-Islamic congregations.
Some leaders in these congregations claimed, however, that the number of approved clergy was insufficient to handle the demand for worship and therefore limited the natural growth of these congregations.
The MERA monitored sermons at mosques to ensure that imams did not discuss political topics.
The Government expected all imams to preach sermons within the parameters of standardized texts distributed monthly by the Ministry.
While the MERA did not control the content of sermons in non-Islamic communities, groups were prohibited from issuing any publications without obtaining the Ministry's prior approval.
There were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country.
There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.
During the reporting period, the MERA met with visiting leaders of some non-Islamic faiths regarding the state of their communities in Oman and discussed the possibility of allowing groups to establish new places of worship in other metropolitan areas.
The Ministry provided an additional 10,000 square meters of space to one of the Christian compounds in Muscat to facilitate its expansion, which could help ease space constraints that limit religious practice.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Organized religion (or organised religion—see spelling differences), also known as institutional religion, is religion as a social institution, in which belief systems and rituals are systematically arranged and formally established.
Organized religion is typically characterized by an official doctrine (or dogma), a hierarchical or bureaucratic leadership structure, and a codification of rules and practices.
The term organized religion is frequently used in the mass media to refer to the world's largest religious groups, especially those known by name internationally, and it also refers to organizations with which one can legally or officially affiliate oneself or not.
Organized religion is distinguished from the broader idea of religion especially in anthropology, sociology, and philosophy.
American philosopher William James describes that <blockquote>Religion... shall mean for us the feelings, acts, and experiences of individual men in their solitude... in relation to whatever they may consider the divine.
Since the relation may be either moral, physical, or ritual, it is evident that out of religion in the sense in which we take it, theologies, philosophies, and ecclesiastical organizations may secondarily grow.< </blockquote> James further comments that the essential elements of "institutional religion" are "worship and sacrifice, procedures for working on the dispositions of the deity [i.e.]
theology, and ceremony and ecclesiastical organization."
Organized religion seems to have gained prevalence since the Neolithic era with the rise of wide-scale civilization and agriculture.
Organized religions may include a state's official religion, for example reified by a state church; however, most political states have any number of organized religions practiced within their jurisdiction.
Due to their structured, standardized, and so easily proliferated form, organized religions comprise many of the world's major religious groups.
The Abrahamic religions are all largely considered organized (including Christianity, Islam, Judaism and Bahá'í Faith), as well as some schools of thought within Indian religions (for example, some schools of Hinduism and Buddhism).
Religions that are not considered organized, or only loosely so, include many indigenous and folk religions, such as traditional African religions, Native American religions, and prehistoric religions, as well as personal religions including most strands of Hinduism.
Even though a few Hindu monasteries and religious institutions have organized themselves, these are local to the organizations affecting only their adherents and have very little impact on the rest of the religious practices.
The Swagap tribe belong to the indigenous tribes of Papua New Guinea.
They are also known as the Insect Tribe.
The tribe lives in a village that sits above the waters of the Sepik River, named Sawagap.
The tribe live off fish and other animals that they hunt in the jungle, but their chief source of income comes from crocodile skin.
They worship the praying mantis.
They were unknown to the outside world until the 1950s.
More recently, they were the subject of a documentary by Donal MacIntyre in 2007, in which six members of the tribe, including their chief, Joseph, were flown to London as part of the special Return of the Tribe.
Stefanus Alliance International is a Christian missions and human rights organisation, with a special focus on freedom of belief and religion as expressed in Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The organisation was earlier known as Norwegian Mission to the East, but changed its name as of January 1st, 2012.
The NGO provides support, care, and practical help for churches and individuals who are persecuted or oppressed because of their religious beliefs.
The organisation also advocates on behalf of Christians and others who have had their religious rights violated.
Stefanus Alliance International is based in Oslo, Norway, and is a partner in the international Christian Solidarity Worldwide network.
Pasha Bahadur Disai was leader of the Hamesha tribe of people of the Balakh region of Afghanistan circa 711–769.
Pasha Bahadur Disai traced his ancestry to the Greek Satraps installed by Alexander the Great.
Although most of the Hamesha people retained their ancient religious beliefs, Pasha Bahadur Disai allied with the Arab Muslims in their invasion of the Sindh regions during this period.
The Sindhis and the Persians were the competing forces for the control of the Hamesha tribal homelands during his reign.
The transit of Arabs and other peoples changed the culture and language of this unique tribe.
Nature worship is any of a variety of religious, spiritual and devotional practices that focus on the worship of natural phenomenon which are attributed to the continuation of the life process.
A nature deity can be in charge of nature, the biosphere, the cosmos, or the universe.
Nature worship is often considered the primitive source of modern religious beliefs and can be found in theism, panentheism, pantheism, deism, polytheism, animism, totemism, shamanism, and paganism.
Common to most forms of nature worship is a spiritual focus on the individual's connection and influence on some aspects of the natural world and reverence towards it.
Masjid Taha, or Taha Mosque ( ), is the only mosque for the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community in Singapore.
It is located adjacent to Masjid Khalid, a mainstream mosque.
Masjid Taha is the only mosque in Singapore not administered by Majlis Ugama Islam Singapura, as the religious beliefs of Ahmadiyya Muslim Community do not conforms to the fundamental religious norms of Singaporean Muslims who are predominantly Sunni of the Shafi'i school of thought.
Choral synagogues ( ) were built in Eastern Europe, from Hungary to Russia.
These synagogues represented the ideas of Jewish Enlightenment (Haskalah) and made certain reforms to the traditional Jewish customs (minhag).
Often, they featured male choruses, conducted sermons in local languages (German, Russian, etc.
), enforced order during services, decorated their interior, and placed pews facing eastern wall where the Torah ark was displayed (in traditionalist synagogues, the ark and bimah stood in the center of the room).
However, the changes did not extend to religious beliefs and customs.
Therefore, the differences between choral and traditional synagogues are more aesthetic.
Christians in Sierra Leone constitute approximately 10 percent (~574,300) of the country's population (5,743,725 - 2014 est.).
Other sources report that the population of Christians in Sierra Leone may reach 21%.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
Intermarriage between Muslims and Christians is common.
Islam and Christianity are often syncretized with indigenous religious beliefs.
The majority of Sierra Leonean Christians are Protestants, of which the largest are Methodists and Evangelicals.
Catholics are the second largest non Protestant Christians division in Sierra Leone at about 5% of the country's population.
A confessional community is a group of people with similar religious beliefs.
In the Ottoman Empire, this allowed people to be grouped by religious confession as opposed to nationality or ethnicity, which was more consistent with the existing social structure.
People were able to represent themselves more effectively as a group than as individuals.
With the rise of nationalism under the Ottoman Empire and after the Ottoman Tanzimat (1839–76) reforms, the term Millet was used for legally protected ethno-religious minority groups, similar to the way other countries used the word nation.
The Lebanese Constitution is based on the idea of Confessionalism, a balance of powers between a number of state-recognized confessional communities.
The Death Disc: A Story of the Cromwellian Period is a 1909 American short film, directed by D.W. Griffith and based on Mark Twain's short story "The Death Disk" .
An early Biograph historical drama set in Cromwellian England.
A soldier, about to be executed because of his religious beliefs, is saved at the last moment through a twist of fate.
The Society of the One Almighty God, popularly known as the Malakite Church and with its members often called the Malakites, was a Christian church in Uganda formed by Musajjakawa Malaki in 1914.
It was also known as the Bamalaki sect.
Malaki was highly influenced in his religious beliefs by Joswa Kate Mugema.
Bamalaki teachings allowed for polygamy, rejected idol worship, and called for the Sabbath to be observed on Saturday.
The last caused extensive problems with the British authorities.
The Church was strongly anti-colonialist and anti-Western, rejecting among other things Western medicine.
By 1921 the movement had approximately 100,000 followers.
Most of the members of this Church were Baganda people.
Joseph Henrich holds the Canada Research Chair in Culture, Cognition and Coevolution at the University of British Columbia, where he is a professor in the departments of psychology and economics.
He was previously on the faculty at Emory University in the Department of Anthropology.
Henrich earned a Master's degree and a doctorate in Anthropology from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1995 and 1999, respectively.
He also holds bachelor degrees in anthropology and aerospace engineering from the University of Notre Dame, earned in 1991.
His research areas include: cultural learning, the evolution of cooperation, social stratification, prestige and the evolution of economic decision-making and religious beliefs.
legayer) is a process of cultural assimilation in which a person or a demographic group acquires Jewish cultural and religious beliefs and values.
It is the obverse of "de-Judaization", the process observed, for example, in Soviet Russia, where discriminatory practices against Jews gave momentum to their "de-Judaization".
Haredization refers to a late 20th- and early 21st-century phenomenon, in which urban and suburban areas of Israel, such as Beit Shemesh, become demographically and politically dominated by Haredim at the expense of non-Haredim (including religious Zionists and Hilonim).
The trend is often the subject of protests in various Israeli cities.
Ecclesiophobia is the fear of churches, a type of specific phobia.
There are two primary causes of fear: fear of a deity or deities, or because of the unique architectural style of churches.
There are many things in the church that can be disturbing, such as images of sufferings that trigger fears of blood and death.
Also, being a religious venue, those that believe in God may feel as though they are being watched and judged by God when inside a church.
The sound of a church organ can also sound haunting to some.
Being in a small chapel can cause claustrophobia.
Religious beliefs such as mythical disasters can effectively cause fear as well as xenophobia if the person is uncomfortable with outside religions.
"Encounter with a Hick" is a short story by Jonathan Brand from Harlan Ellison's science fiction anthology Dangerous Visions.
A young man is explaining to a police officer why an old man he was sitting with dropped dead.
The man states that his father is a "creator", and owns several planets.
He was on a date with a girl whose father is also a creator.
The date is an attempt by both fathers to unite their families.
The titular hick arrives, and the man shows him a brochure that advertises his father's business.
Aggravated, the man proudly proclaims his religious beliefs, but collapses when he discovers the man is the "creator's" son.
Growing Up in New Guinea is a 1930 publication by Margaret Mead.
The book is about her encounters with the indigenous people of the Manus Province of Papua New Guinea before they had been changed by missionaries and other western influences.
She compares their views on family, marriage, sex, child rearing, and religious beliefs to those of westerners.
The book has been rereleased several times since its original release under different publishers.
Quakers (or Friends) are members of a group of religious Christian movements which is known as the Religious Society of Friends in Europe, Australia, New Zealand and parts of North America; and known as the Friends Church in Africa, Asia, South America and parts of the US.
The movements were originally, and are still predominantly based on Christianity.
Members of the movements profess the priesthood of all believers, a doctrine derived from the First Epistle of Peter.
They include those with evangelical, holiness, liberal, and traditional Quaker understandings of Christianity.
To differing extents, the different movements that make up the Religious Society of Friends/Friends Church avoid creeds and hierarchical structures.
In 2007, there were approximately 359,000 adult Quakers.
Around 79% of Quakers worldwide belong to the 'evangelical' and 'programmed' branches of Quakerism – these Quakers worship in services with singing and a prepared message from the Bible, coordinated by a pastor.
Around 11% of Friends practice waiting worship, or unprogrammed worship (more commonly known today as Meeting for Worship), where the order of service is not planned in advance, is predominantly silent, and may include unprepared vocal ministry from those present.
Some meetings of both types have Recorded Ministers in their meetings—Friends recognised for their gift of vocal ministry.
The first Quakers lived in mid-17th century England.
The movement arose from the Legatine-Arians and other dissenting Protestant groups, breaking away from the established Church of England.
The Quakers, especially the ones known as the Valiant Sixty, attempted to convert others to their understanding of Christianity, travelling both throughout Great Britain and overseas, preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Some of these early Quaker ministers were women.
They based their message on the religious belief that "Christ has come to teach his people himself", stressing the importance of a direct relationship with God through Jesus Christ, and a direct religious belief in the universal priesthood of all believers.
They emphasized a personal and direct religious experience of Christ, acquired through both direct religious experience and the reading and studying of the Bible.
Quakers focused their private life on developing behaviour and speech reflecting emotional purity and the light of God.
In the past, Quakers were known for their use of thou as an ordinary pronoun, refusal to participate in war, plain dress, refusal to swear oaths, opposition to slavery, and teetotalism.
Described as "natural capitalists" by the BBC, some Quakers founded banks and financial institutions, including Barclays, Lloyds, and Friends Provident; manufacturing companies, including shoe retailer C. & J. Clark and the big three British confectionery makers Cadbury, Rowntree and Fry's; and philanthropic efforts, including abolition of slavery, prison reform, and social justice projects.
During and after the English Civil War (1642–1651) many dissenting Christian groups emerged, including the Seekers and others.
A young man named George Fox was dissatisfied with the teachings of the Church of England and non-conformists.
He had a revelation that there is one, even, Christ Jesus, who can speak to thy condition, and became convinced that it was possible to have a direct experience of Christ without the aid of an ordained clergy.
He had a vision on Pendle Hill in Lancashire, England, in which he believed that "the Lord let me see in what places he had a great people to be gathered".
Following this he travelled around England, the Netherlands, and Barbados preaching and teaching them with the aim of converting them to his faith.
The central theme of his Gospel message was that Christ has come to teach his people himself.
His followers considered themselves to be the restoration of the true Christian church, after centuries of apostasy in the churches in England.
In 1650, Fox was brought before the magistrates Gervase Bennet and Nathaniel Barton, on a charge of religious blasphemy.
According to George Fox's autobiography, Bennet "was the first that called us Quakers, because I bade them tremble at the word of the Lord".
It is thought that George Fox was referring to or .
Thus, the name Quaker began as a way of ridiculing George Fox's admonition, but became widely accepted and is used by some Quakers.
Quakers also described themselves using terms such as true Christianity, Saints, Children of the Light, and Friends of the Truth, reflecting terms used in the New Testament by members of the early Christian church.
Quakerism gained a considerable following in England and Wales, and the numbers increased to a peak of 60,000 in England and Wales by 1680 (1.15% of the population of England and Wales).
However, the dominant discourse of Protestantism viewed the Quakers as a blasphemous challenge to social and political order, leading to official persecution in England and Wales under the Quaker Act 1662 and the Conventicle Act 1664.
This was relaxed after the Declaration of Indulgence (1687–1688) and stopped under the Act of Toleration 1689.
One modern view of Quakerism at this time was that the relationship with Christ was encouraged through spiritualization of human relations, and "the redefinition of the Quakers as a holy tribe, 'the family and household of God'".
Together with Margaret Fell, the wife of Thomas Fell, who was the vice-chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and a pre-eminent judge, Fox developed new conceptions of family and community that emphasized "holy conversation": speech and behavior that reflected piety, faith, and love.
With the restructuring of the family and household came new roles for women; Fox and Fell viewed the Quaker mother as essential to developing "holy conversation" in her children and husband.
Quaker women were also responsible for the spirituality of the larger community, coming together in "meetings" that regulated marriage and domestic behavior.
The persecution of Quakers in North America began in 1656 when two English Quaker missionaries, Mary Fisher and Ann Austin, began preaching in Boston.
They were considered heretics because of their insistence on individual obedience to the Inner Light.
They were imprisoned and banished by the Massachusetts Bay Colony.
Their books were burned, and most of their property was confiscated.
They were imprisoned in terrible conditions, then deported.
In 1660, English Quaker Mary Dyer was hanged on Boston Common for repeatedly defying a Puritan law banning Quakers from the colony.
She was one of the four executed Quakers known as the Boston martyrs.
In 1661, King Charles II forbade Massachusetts from executing anyone for professing Quakerism.
In 1684, England revoked the Massachusetts charter, sent over a royal governor to enforce English laws in 1686 and, in 1689, passed a broad Toleration act.
In search of economic opportunities and a more tolerant environment in which to build communities of "holy conversation", some Friends immigrated to what is now the Northeastern region of the United States in the early 1680s.
While in some areas like New England they continued to experience persecution, they were able to establish thriving communities in the Delaware Valley.
The three colonies that tolerated Quakers at this time were West Jersey, Rhode Island and Pennsylvania, where Quakers established themselves politically.
In Rhode Island, 36 governors in the first 100 years were Quakers.
West Jersey and Pennsylvania were established by affluent Quaker William Penn in 1676 and 1682 respectively, with Pennsylvania as an American commonwealth run under Quaker principles.
William Penn signed a peace treaty with Tammany, leader of the Delaware tribe, and other treaties between Quakers and Native Americans followed.
This peace would endure almost a century, until the Penn's Creek Massacre of 1755.
Early colonial Quakers also established communities and meeting houses in North Carolina and Maryland, after fleeing persecution by the Anglician Church in Virginia.
In the 19th century, there was a diversification of theological beliefs in the Religious Society of Friends, and this led to several large splits within the Quaker movement.
The Hicksite–Orthodox split arose out of both ideological and socio-economic tensions.
Philadelphia Yearly Meeting Hicksites tended to be agrarian and poorer than the more urban, wealthier, Orthodox Quakers.
With increasing financial success, Orthodox Quakers wanted to "make the Society a more respectable body—to transform their sect into a church—by adopting mainstream Protestant orthodoxy".
Hicksites, though they held a variety of views, generally saw the market economy as corrupting, and believed Orthodox Quakers had sacrificed their orthodox Christian spirituality for material success.
Hicksites viewed the Bible as secondary to the individual cultivation of God's light within.
With Gurneyite Quakers shift towards Protestant principles and away from the spiritualization of human relations, women's role as promoters of "holy conversation" started to decrease.
Conversely, within the Hicksite movement the rejection of the market economy and the continuing focus on community and family bonds tended to encourage women to retain their role as powerful arbiters.
Elias Hicks' religious views were claimed to be universalist and to contradict Quakers' historical orthodox Christian beliefs and practices.
Elias Hicks' Gospel preaching and teaching precipitated the Great Separation of 1827, which resulted in a parallel system of Yearly Meetings in America, joined by Friends from Philadelphia, New York, Ohio, Indiana, and Baltimore.
They were referred to by their opponents as Hicksites and by others, and sometimes themselves, as orthodox.
Quakers in Great Britain only recognized the Orthodox Quakers and refused to correspond with the Hicksites.
Isaac Crewdson was a Recorded Minister in Manchester, UK.
He published a book titled A Beacon to the Society of Friends in 1835, which strongly argued that the inward light could not exist alongside a religious belief in salvation by the atonement of Christ.
This Christian controversy led to Isaac Crewdson's resignation from the Religious Society of Friends, along with 48 fellow members of Manchester Meeting and about 250 other British Quakers in 1836–1837.
Some of these Quakers joined the Plymouth Brethren Church.
Orthodox Friends became more evangelical during the 19th century and were influenced by the Second Great Awakening.
This movement was led by British Quaker Joseph John Gurney.
Christian Friends held Revival meetings in America and became involved in the Holiness movement of churches.
Quakers such as Hannah Whitall Smith and Robert Pearsall Smith became speakers in the religious movement and introduced Quaker phrases and practices to it.
British Friends became involved with the Higher Life movement, with Robert Wilson from Cockermouth meeting founding the Keswick Convention.
From the 1870s it became commonplace in Great Britain to have home mission meetings on a Sunday evening with Christian hymns and a Bible-based sermon alongside the silent meetings for worship on Sunday morning.
The Quaker Yearly Meetings supporting the religious beliefs of Joseph John Gurney were known as Gurneyite yearly meetings.
Many eventually collectively became the Five Years Meeting and then Friends United Meeting, although London Yearly Meeting, which had been strongly Gurneyite in the nineteenth century, did not join either of these groups.
These Quaker yearly meetings make up the largest proportion of Quakers in the world today.
Some orthodox Quakers in America disliked the move towards evangelical Christianity and saw it as a dilution of Friends' traditional orthodox Christian belief in being inwardly led by the Holy Spirit.
These Friends were led by John Wilbur who was expelled from his yearly meeting in 1842.
He and his supporters formed their own Conservative Friends Yearly Meeting.
In the UK in 1868 some Friends broke away from London Yearly Meeting for the same reason.
They formed a separate body of Friends called Fritchley General Meeting, which remained distinct and separate from London Yearly Meeting until 1968.
Similar Christian splits took place in Canada.
The Yearly Meetings that supported John Wilbur's religious beliefs were known as Conservative Friends.
In 1887, a Gurneyite Quaker of British descent, Joseph Bevan Braithwaite, proposed to Friends a statement of faith known as the Richmond Declaration.
This statement of faith was agreed to by 95 of the representatives at a meeting of Five Years Meeting Friends; but unexpectedly the Richmond Declaration was not adopted by London Yearly Meeting because a vocal minority, including Edward Grubb, opposed it.
Following the Christian revivals in the mid-19th century, Friends in Great Britain wanted to start missionary activity overseas.
The first missionaries were sent to Benares (Varanasi), in India in 1866.
The Friends Foreign Mission Association was formed in 1868, and sent missionaries to Madhya Pradesh, India, forming what is now Mid-India Yearly Meeting; and later to Madagascar from 1867, China from 1896, Sri Lanka from 1896, and Pemba Island from 1897.
The Friends Syrian Mission was established in 1874, which among other institutions ran the Ramallah Friends Schools, which still exist today.
Swiss missionary Theophilus Waldmeier founded Brummana High School in Lebanon in 1873.
Evangelical Friends Churches from Ohio Yearly Meeting sent missionaries to India in 1896, forming what is now Bundelkhand Yearly Meeting.
Cleveland Friends went to Mombasa, Kenya, and started what was the most successful Friends' mission.
Christian Quakerism spread within Kenya and to Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi, and Rwanda.
The theory of evolution described by Charles Darwin in On the Origin of Species (1859) was opposed by many Quakers in the nineteenth century, particularly by older evangelical Quakers who dominated the Religious Society of Friends in Great Britain.
These religious leaders were suspicious of Darwin's theory, and believed that natural selection needed to be supplemented by another process.
For example, influential British Quaker scientist Edward Newman stated that this theory was "not compatible with our notions of creation as delivered from the hands of a Creator."
However, some young Friends such as John Wilhelm Rowntree and Edward Grubb supported Darwin's theories adopting a doctrine of progressive revelation with evolutionary ideas.
In the USA, Joseph Moore taught the theory of evolution at the Quaker Earlham College as early as 1861 and was probably one of the first teachers in the Midwest to do so.
Acceptance of the theory of evolution became more widespread in those Yearly Meetings, which moved towards liberal Christianity in the twentieth century, while a belief in creationism exists within evangelical Friends Churches, particularly in East Africa and parts of the USA.
In the late 19th century and early 20th century a religious movement known as the Quaker Renaissance movement began within London Yearly Meeting.
Young Friends in London Yearly Meeting at this time moved away from evangelicalism and towards liberal Christianity.
</ref> This Quaker Renaissance movement was particularly influenced by John Wilhelm Rowntree, Edward Grubb, and Rufus Jones.
These Liberal Friends promoted the theory of evolution, modern biblical criticism, and the social meaning of Jesus Christ's teaching – encouraging Friends to follow the New Testament example of Christ by performing good works.
These Quaker men downplayed the evangelical Quaker belief in the atonement of Christ on the Cross at Calvary.
After the Manchester Conference in England in 1895, one thousand British Friends met to consider the future of British Quakerism and, as a result, liberal Quaker thought gradually increased within London Yearly Meeting.
During World War I and World War II, Friends' opposition to war was put to the test.
Many Friends became conscientious objectors and some formed the Friends Ambulance Unit with the aim of co-operating with others to build up a new world rather than fighting to destroy the old, and the American Friends Service Committee.
Birmingham, UK had a strong Quaker community during the war (see Conscientious Objectors in Birmingham in WW1).
Many British Quakers were conscripted into the Non-Combatant Corps during both world wars.
After the two great wars had brought the different kinds of Quakers closer together, Friends from different yearly meetings&nbsp;– many of whom had served together in the Friends Ambulance Unit, and on the American Friends Service Committee and in other relief work&nbsp;– later held several Quaker World Conferences; this subsequently resulted in the creation of a standing body of Friends named Friends World Committee for Consultation.
After World War I, a growing desire for a more fundamentalist approach among some Friends began a split among Five Years Meetings.
In 1926, Oregon Yearly Meeting seceded from Five Years Meeting, bringing together several other yearly meetings and scattered monthly meetings.
In 1947, the Association of Evangelical Friends was formed, with triennial meetings until 1970.
In 1965, this was replaced by the Evangelical Friends Alliance, which, in 1989, became Evangelical Friends Church International.
From its inception, the Quaker emphasis on family and community relations gave women spiritual power.
Through the women's meeting, women oversaw domestic and community life, including marriage.
From the beginning, Quaker women, most notably Margaret Fell, played an important role in defining Quakerism.
Others active in proselytizing included Mary Penington, Mary Mollineux and Barbara Blaugdone.
However, within the Quaker movement, some resented the power of women within the community.
In the early years of Quakerism, George Fox faced resistance in developing and establishing women's meetings.
This resistance culminated in the Wilkinson–Story split, in which a portion of the Quaker community left to worship independently in protest of women's meetings.
After several years, the schism became largely resolved, testifying to the resistance of some within the Quaker community, and to the radical spiritual role of women that George Fox and Margaret Fell had encouraged.
Also particularly within the relatively prosperous Quaker communities of the eastern United States, the focus on the child and "holy conversation" gave women unusual community power, although they were largely excluded from the market economy.
With the Hicksite–Orthodox split of 1827–1828, Orthodox women found their spiritual role decreased, while Hicksite women retained greater influence.
Dynasties of Quakers were successful in business matters.
This included ironmaking by Abraham Darby I and his family; banking, including Lloyds Banking Group (founded by Sampson Lloyd), Barclays PLC, Backhouse's Bank and Gurney's Bank; life assurance (Friends Provident); pharmaceuticals (Allen & Hanburys); chocolate (Cadbury, Terry's, Fry's); confectionery (Rowntree); biscuit manufacturing (Huntley & Palmers); match manufacture (Bryant & May, Francis May and William Bryant) and shoe manufacturing (Clarks).
Initially, Quakers had no ordained clergy, and thus needed no seminaries for theological training.
In England, Quaker schools sprang up, with Friends School Saffron Walden being the most prominent.
Later in America they founded Wilmington Friends School (1748), Haverford College (1833), Guilford College (1837), Pickering College (1842), Earlham College (1847), Swarthmore College (1864), Wilmington College (Ohio) (1870), Bryn Mawr College (1885), Friends Pacific Academy (now George Fox University) (1885), Cleveland Bible College (now Malone University) (1892), Friends University (1898), Training School for Christian Workers (now Azusa Pacific University) (1899) Whittier College (1901), and Friends Bible College (now Barclay College) (1917).
In Great Britain, they organized Woodbrooke College in 1903.
In Kenya, Quakers founded Friends Bible Institute (now Friends Theological College) in Kaimosi, Kenya, in 1942.
Some Quakers in North America and Great Britain became well known for their involvement in the abolition of slavery.
However, prior to the American Revolution, it was fairly common for Friends in British America to own slaves.
During the early to mid-1700s a disquiet about this practice arose among Friends, best exemplified by the testimonies of Anthony Benezet and John Woolman; and this resulted in an abolition movement among Friends.
By the time of the American Revolution few Friends owned slaves.
In 1790, the Society of Friends petitioned the United States Congress to abolish slavery, becoming the first organization to take a collective stand against slavery and the slave trade.
One example of a reversal in sentiment about slavery took place in the life of Moses Brown, one of four Rhode Island brothers who, in 1764, organized and funded the tragic and fateful voyage of the slave ship named Sally.
Moses Brown broke away from his three brothers, became an abolitionist, and converted to Christian Quakerism.
During the 19th Century, Quakers such as Levi Coffin played a major role in helping enslaved people escape through the Underground Railroad.
Quaker Paul Cuffee, a free black sea captain and businessman, was active in the abolitionist and resettlement movement in the early part of that century.
The theological beliefs of Quaker yearly meetings vary considerably.
Tolerance of dissent widely varies among yearly meetings. ]
Most Friends believe in continuing revelation, which is the religious belief that truth is continuously revealed directly to individuals from God.
George Fox, an "early Friend", described it as "Christ has come to teach His people Himself."
Friends often focus on trying to hear God.
As Isaac Penington wrote in 1670, "It is not enough to hear of Christ, or read of Christ, but this is the thing—to feel him to be my root, my life, and my foundation..." Quakers reject the idea of priests, believing in the priesthood of all believers.
Some Friends express their concept of God using various phrases including the inner light, or inward light of Christ, the Holy Spirit or other phrases.
Diverse theological beliefs, understandings of the "leading of the Holy Spirit", and statements of "faith and practice" have always existed among Friends.
Due in part to the emphasis on the immediate guidance of the Holy Spirit, Quaker doctrines have only sometimes been codified as statements of faith, confessions or theological texts; those that do exist include the Letter to the Governor of Barbados (Fox, 1671), An Apology for the True Christian Divinity (Barclay, 1678), A Catechism and Confession of Faith (Barclay, 1690), The Testimony of the Society of Friends on the Continent of America (adopted jointly by all orthodox yearly meetings in USA, 1830), the Richmond Declaration of Faith (adopted by Five Years Meeting, 1887), and Essential Truths (Jones and Wood, adopted by Five Years Meeting, 1922).
As a public statement of faith, most yearly meetings publish their own Book of Discipline, that expresses Christian discipleship within the experience of Friends in that yearly meeting.
Conservative Friends (also known as "Wilburites" after their founder, John Wilbur), share some of the beliefs of George Fox and the Early Friends.
Many Wilburites see themselves as the Quakers whose beliefs are most true to original Quaker doctrine, arguing that the majority of Friends "broke away" from the Wilburite Quakers in the 19th and 20th centuries (rather than the Wilburites being the "breakaway" sect).
Conservative Friends place their trust in the immediate guidance of God.
Conservative Friends completely reject all forms of religious symbolism and outward sacraments, such as the Eucharist and water baptism.
Conservative Friends do not believe in relying upon the practice of outward rites and sacraments, to have a living relationship with God through Christ; believing that holiness can exist in all of the activities of one's daily life—and that all of life is sacred in God.
Many Conservative Friends believe that a meal held with others can become a form of communion with God, and with one another.
In the USA, Conservative Friends are part of three small Quaker Yearly Meetings in Ohio, North Carolina and Iowa; Ohio Yearly Meeting (Conservative) is generally considered to be the most Bible-centred of the three Conservative Friends Yearly Meetings, retaining Christian Quakers who use the plain language, who continue to wear plain dress, and who live in small villages or rural areas; more than the Conservative Friends from the other two Conservative Friends Yearly Meetings.
In 2007, total membership of these Yearly Meetings was around 1642, making them around 0.4% of the world family of Quakers.
Evangelical Friends regard Jesus Christ as their personal Lord and Saviour, and have similar religious beliefs to other evangelical Christians.
They believe in, and hold a high regard for, the penal substitution of the atonement of Christ on the Cross at Calvary, biblical infallibility, and the need for every person to personally experience a relationship with God.
They believe that the purpose of the Evangelical Friends Church is to evangelise the unsaved people of the world, to spiritually transform them through God's love, and through social service to others.
Evangelical Friends regard the Bible as the infallible and self-authenticating Word of God.
The statement of faith of Evangelical Friends International, is comparable to the statement of faith of other Evangelical churches.
Evangelical Friends who are members of Evangelical Friends International, are mainly located in the USA, Central America, and Asia.
Beginning in the 1880s, some Friends began using outward sacraments in their Sunday services, first in Evangelical Friends Church—Eastern Region (then known as Ohio Yearly Meeting [Damascus]).
Friends Church—Southwest Region, has also approved the practice of using the outward sacraments in their Sunday services.
In places where Evangelical Friends are engaged in missionary work, such as in Africa, Latin America, and Asia, adult baptism by immersion in water, is carried out.
This practice differs from most other Quaker branches of the Religious Society of Friends.
, EFCI claims to represent more than 140,000 Friends, equalling roughly 39% of the total number of Friends worldwide.
Gurneyite Friends (aka Friends United Meeting Friends), are the modern-day followers of the Evangelical Quaker theology which was first proclaimed by Joseph John Gurney, a 19th-century British Friend.
They make up 49% of the total number of Quakers worldwide.
They regard Jesus Christ as their Teacher and Lord, and favour working closely with other Protestant Christian churches.
Gurneyite Friends place more emphasis on the authority of the Bible as the direct Word of God than on personal and direct experience of God in their lives.
Both children and adults participate in ongoing religious education which emphasises orthodox Christian teaching from the Bible, and in relationship to both orthodox Christian Quaker history and Quaker testimonies.
Gurneyite Friends subscribe to a set of orthodox Christian doctrines, such as those found in the Richmond Declaration of faith.
In subsequent years, conflict arose among Gurneyite Friends in relation to the Richmond Declaration of faith.
Thus, after a while, the Richmond Declaration of faith was adopted by nearly all of the Gurneyite yearly meetings.
The Five Years Meeting of Friends reaffirmed their loyalty to the Richmond Declaration of faith in 1912, but specifically stated that it was not to constitute a Christian creed.
Although Gurneyism was the main form of Quakerism in Great Britain in the 19th century, Gurneyite Friends are today located in America, Ireland, Africa and India.
Many Gurneyite Friends combine "waiting worship" (unprogrammed worship), with religious practices commonly found in other Protestant Christian churches, such as the reading of the Bible and the singing of Hymns.
A small minority of Gurneyite Friends practice entirely unprogrammed worship.
Holiness Friends are heavily influenced by the Holiness movement, in particular John Wesley's doctrine of Christian perfection, also called "entire sanctification."
This doctrine states that loving God and humanity totally, as exemplified by Christ, enables believers to rid themselves of voluntary sin.
This was a predominant view within Quakerism in the United Kingdom and United States in the 19th century, and it influenced other branches of Quakerism.
Holiness Friends argue that early Friends, including George Fox's message of perfection, is the same as holiness.
Today, while there are some Friends who hold holiness beliefs within most yearly meetings, it is the predominant theological view of Central Yearly Meeting of Friends, (founded in 1926 specifically to promote holiness theology), and the Holiness Mission of the Bolivian Evangelical Friends Church (founded by missionaries from that meeting in 1919, the largest group of Friends in Bolivia).
Liberal Quakerism generally refers to Friends who have taken ideas from liberal Christianity, often sharing a similar mix of ideas, such as more critical Biblical hermeneutics, often with a focus on the social gospel.
The ideas of That of God in everyone and the inner light were popularised by American Friend Rufus Jones, in the early 20th century.
He and John Wilhelm Rowntree originated the movement.
Liberal Friends were predominant in Great Britain in the 20th century, and among US meetings affiliated to Friends General Conference; and some meetings in Canada, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa.
These ideas remain an important part of liberal Friends' understanding of God.
Liberal Friends highlight the importance of good works, particularly living a life that upholds the virtues preached by Jesus.
They often emphasize pacifism, treating others equally, living simply and telling the truth.
Like Conservatives Friends, Liberal Friends reject religious symbolism and sacraments, such as water baptism and the Eucharist.
While Liberal Friends recognize the potential of these outward forms for awakening experiences of the Inward Light of Christ, they are not part of their worship, and are believed unnecessary to authentic Christian spirituality.
The Bible remains central to most Liberal Friends' worship, and almost all meetings make it available in the meeting house, (often on a table in the centre of the room), which attendees may read privately or publicly during worship.
However, Liberal Friends, decided that the Scriptures should give way to God's leading, if God leads them in a way that is contrary to the Bible.
Many Friends are also influenced by liberal Christian theologians, and modern Biblical criticism.
They often adopt non-propositional Biblical hermeneutics, such as believing that the Bible is an anthology of human authors' beliefs and feelings about God, rather than Holy Writ, and that multiple interpretations of the Scriptures are acceptable.
Liberal Friends believe that a corporate confession of faith would be an obstacle—both to authentic listening and to new insight.
As a non-creedal form of Christianity, Liberal Quakerism is receptive to a wide range of religious faith understandings.
Most Liberal Quaker Yearly Meetings publish a Faith and Practice, a book with a range of religious experiences of what it means to be a Friend in that Yearly Meeting.
Universalist Friends affirm religious pluralism, that there are many different paths to God and that understandings of the divine reached through non-Christian religious experiences are as valid as Christian understandings.
This group was founded in the late 1970s by John Linton.
Linton had worshipped God with the Delhi Worship Group in India (an independent meeting not affiliated to any yearly meeting or wider Quaker group) with Christians, Muslims and Hindus worshipping together.
Following a move to Great Britain, he founded the Quaker Universalist Fellowship in 1978.
Later his views spread to the US where the Quaker Universalist Fellowship was founded in 1983.
Most of the Friends who joined these two fellowships were Liberal Friends from Britain Yearly Meeting in the United Kingdom, and Liberal Friends from Friends General Conference in the United States.
Interest in Quaker Universalism is low among Friends from other Yearly meetings.
The views of the Universalists provoked controversy between themselves and Christian Quakers within Britain Yearly Meeting, and within Friends General Conference, during the 1980s.
Despite the label, Quaker "Universalists" are not necessarily Christian Universalists, embracing the doctrine of universal reconciliation.
These Friends have views similar to other post-Christian non-theists in other churches such as the Sea of Faith within the Anglican church.
They are predominantly atheists, agnostics, and humanists who nevertheless value membership in a religious organization.
The first organization for non-theist Friends was the Humanistic Society of Friends, founded in Los Angeles in 1939.
This organization remained small and was absorbed into the American Humanist Association.
More recently, interest in non-theism resurfaced, particularly led by British Friend David Boulton, who founded the 40 member Nontheist Friends Network in 2011.
Non-theism is controversial, leading some Christian Quakers from within Britain Yearly Meeting to call for non-theists to be refused membership.
In one study of Friends in Britain Yearly Meeting, around 30% of Quakers had views that were described as non-theistic, agnostic, or atheist.
Another study of British Quakers, found that of the 727 members of the Religious Society of Friends who completed the survey, 75.1% said that they consider themselves to be Christian; 17.6% did not consider themselves Christian; and 7.3% of the members either did not answer or circled both answers.
A further 22% of Quakers did not consider themselves to be a Christian, but fulfilled a definition of being a Christian in that they said that they devoutly followed the teachings and example of Jesus Christ.
In the same survey 86.9% said that they believed in God.
Quakers bear witness or testify to their religious beliefs in their spiritual lives, drawing on the James advice that faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead.
This religious witness is rooted in their immediate experience of God and verified by the Bible, especially in Jesus Christ's life and teachings.
They may bear witness in many ways, according to how they believe God is leading them.
Although Quakers share how they relate to God and the world, mirroring Christian ethical codes, for example the Sermon on the Mount or the Sermon on the Plain, Friends argue that they feel personally moved by God rather than following an ethical code.
Some theologians classify Friends' religious witness into categories—known by some Friends as testimonies.
These Friends believe these principles and practices testify to, witness to, or provide evidence for God's truth.
No categorization is universally accepted.
In East Africa, Friends teach peace and non-violence, simplicity, honesty, equality, humility, marriage and sexual ethics (defining marriage as lifelong between one man and one woman), sanctity of life (opposition to abortion), cultural conflicts and Christian life.
In the United States, the acronym SPICES is often used (Simplicity, Peace, Integrity, Community, Equality and Stewardship).
Rocky Mountain Yearly Meeting Friends put their faith in action through living their lives by the following principles: prayer, personal integrity, stewardship (which includes giving away minimum of 10% income and refraining from lotteries), marriage and family (lifelong commitment), regard for mind and body (refraining from certain amusements, propriety and modesty of dress, abstinence from alcohol, tobacco and drugs), peace and non-violence (including refusing to participate in war), abortion (opposition to abortion, practical ministry to women with unwanted pregnancy and promotion of adoption), human sexuality, the Christian and state (look to God for authority, not the government), capital punishment (find alternatives), human equality, women in ministry (recognising women and men have an equal part to play in ministry).
In the UK, the acronym STEP or PEST is used (peace, equality, simplicity and truth).
In his book Quaker Speak, British Friend Alastair Heron, lists the following ways in which British Friends testify to God: Opposition to betting and gambling, capital punishment, conscription, hat honor (the largely historical practice of dipping one's hat toward social superiors), oaths, slavery, times and seasons, tithing and promotion of integrity (or truth), peace, penal reform, plain language, relief of suffering, simplicity, social order, Sunday observance, sustainability, temperance and moderation.
Quakers traditionally use numbers to denominate the names of the months and days of the week, something they call the plain calendar.
This does not use names of calendar units derived from the names of pagan deities.
The days begin with First Day (Sunday) and ends on Seventh Day (Saturday), and months run from First Month (January) to Twelfth Month (December).
This is based on the terms used in the Bible: e.g., Jesus Christ's followers went to the tomb early on the First Day of the week.
The plain calendar emerged in the 17th century in England in the Puritan movement, but became closely identified with Friends by the end of the 1650s, and was commonly employed into the 20th century.
It is less commonly encountered today.
The term First Day School is commonly used, for what is called by most churches Sunday School.
In common with other Christian denominations derived from the 16th century Puritanism, many Friends do not observe religious festivals (e.g.
Christmas, Lent, or Easter), but instead believe that Christ's birth, crucifixion, and resurrection, should be commemorated every day of the year.
For example, many Quakers feel that fasting at Lent, but then eating in excess at other times of the year is hypocrisy and therefore many Quakers, rather than observing Lent, live a simple lifestyle all the year round (see Testimony of Simplicity).
These practices are often referred to as the testimony against times and seasons.
Some Friends are non-Sabbatarians, holding that "every day is the Lord's day," and that what should be done on a First Day should be done every day of the week, although Meeting for Worship is usually held on a First Day, which has been advised since the first advice issued by elders in 1656.
Most groups of Quakers meet for regular worship.
There are two main types of worship worldwide: programmed worship and waiting worship.
In programmed worship there is often a prepared Biblical message, which may be delivered by an individual with theological training from a Bible College.
There may be hymns, a sermon, Bible readings, joint prayers and a period of silent worship.
The worship resembles the church services of other Protestant denominations, although in most cases does not include any Eucharist service.
A paid pastor may be responsible for pastoral care.
Worship of this kind is celebrated by about 89% of Friends worldwide.
It is found in many Yearly Meetings in Africa, Asia and parts of the US (central and southern), and is common in programmed meetings affiliated to Friends United Meeting, (who make up around 49% of worldwide membership ), and evangelical meetings, including those affiliated to Evangelical Friends International, (who make up at least 40% of Friends worldwide ).
The religious event is sometimes called a Quaker meeting for worship or sometimes called a Friends church service.
This religious tradition arose among Friends in the United States, in the 19th century, and in response to the many converts to Christian Quakerism during the national spiritual revival of the time.
Friends meetings in Africa and Latin America were generally started by Orthodox Friends from programmed elements of the Society, therefore most African and Latin American Friends worship in a programmed style.
Some Friends also hold "Semi-Programmed" Worship, which brings programmed elements such as hymns and readings into an otherwise unprogrammed worship service.
Unprogrammed worship (also known as waiting worship, "silent worship", or holy communion in the manner of Friends) is based on the practices of George Fox and the Early Friends, who based their religious beliefs and practices on their interpretation of how the early Christians worshipped God their Heavenly Father.
Friends gather together in "expectant waiting upon God" to experience his still small voice leading them from within.
There is no plan on how the meeting will proceed, and actual practice varies widely between Meetings and individual worship services.
Friends believe that God plans what will happen, with his spirit leading people to speak.
When a participant feels led to speak, he or she will stand and share a spoken message of ("vocal ministry") in front of others.
When this happens, Quakers believe that the spirit of God is speaking through the speaker.
After someone has spoken, it is generally considered good etiquette to allow a few minutes pass in silence before further vocal ministry is given.
Sometimes a meeting is entirely silent, sometimes many speak.
These meetings lasted for several hours in George Fox's day.
Modern meetings are often limited to an hour, ending when two people (usually the elders) exchange the sign of peace by handshake.
This handshake is often shared by the others.
This style of worship is the norm in Great Britain, Ireland, the continent of Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Southern Africa, Canada, and parts of the United States (particularly yearly meetings associated with Friends General Conference and Beanite Quakerism)—constituting about 11% of Quakers.
Those who worship in this style hold each person to be equal before God and capable of knowing the light of God directly.
Anyone present may speak if they feel led to do so.
Traditionally, Recorded Ministers were recognised for their particular gift in vocal ministry.
This religious practice continues among Conservative Friends and Liberal Friends (e.g.
New York Yearly Meeting).
Many meetings where Liberal Friends predominate abolished this religious practice.
London Yearly Meeting of Friends abolished the acknowledging and recording of Recorded Ministers in 1924.
Governance and decision making is conducted at a special meeting for worship—often called a meeting for worship with a concern for business or meeting for worship for church affairs at which all members can attend, as in a Congregational church.
Quakers consider this to be a form of worship, conducted in the manner of meeting for worship.
They believe this is the gathering of believers who wait upon the Lord to discover God's will, believing that they are not making their own decisions.
They seek to understand God's will for the religious community, via the actions of the Holy Spirit within the meeting.
As in a meeting for worship, each member is expected to listen to God, and, if led by Him, stand up and contribute.
In some business meetings, Friends wait for the clerk to acknowledge them before speaking.
Direct replies to someone's contribution are not permitted, with an aim of seeking truth rather than of debating.
A decision is reached when the meeting, as a whole, feels that the "way forward" has been discerned (also called "coming to unity").
On some occasions a single Friend delays a decision, because they feel the meeting is not following God's will.
Because of this, many non-Friends, describe this as consensus decision-making; however Friends are instead determined to continue seeking God's will.
It is assumed that if everyone is listening to God's spirit, the way forward will become clear.
Friends World Committee for Consultation (FWCC) is the international Quaker organization that loosely unifies the different religious traditions of Quakers; FWCC brings together the largest variety of Friends in the world.
Friends World Committee for Consultation is divided into four sections to represent different regions of the world: Africa, Asia West Pacific, Europe and Middle East, and the Americas.
Various organizations associated with Friends include a U.S. lobbying organization based in Washington, D.C. called the Friends Committee on National Legislation (FCNL); service organizations such as the American Friends Service Committee (AFSC), the Quaker United Nations Offices, Quaker Peace and Social Witness, Friends Committee on Scouting, the Quaker Peace Centre in Cape Town, South Africa, and the Alternatives to Violence Project.
Quakers today are organized into independent and regional, national bodies called Yearly Meetings, which have often split from one another because of Christian doctrinal differences.
Several associations unite Quakers who share similar religious beliefs—for example Evangelical Friends Church International unites evangelical Christian Friends; Friends United Meeting unites Friends into "fellowships where Jesus Christ is known, loved, and obeyed as Teacher and Lord;" and Friends General Conference links together Quakers that have non-creedal, liberal religious beliefs.
Many Quaker Yearly Meetings, are also members of Friends World Committee for Consultation, an international fellowship of Yearly Meetings from different Quaker religious traditions.
A Friend is a member of a Yearly Meeting, usually beginning with membership in a local monthly meeting.
Methods for acquiring membership vary; for example, in most Kenyan yearly meetings, attenders who wish to become members are required to take part in around two years of adult education, memorising key Bible passages, and learning about the history of orthodox Christianity, and of Christian Quakerism.
Within Britain Yearly Meeting, membership is acquired through a process of peer review, where a potential member is visited by several members who present a report to the other members of the monthly meeting before a decision is reached.
Within some Friends Churches in the Evangelical Friends Church, in particular in Rwanda, Burundi, and parts of the USA, an adult believer's baptism by immersion in water, is optional.
Within Liberal Friends, Conservative Friends, and Pastoral Friends Churches, Friends do not practice water baptism, Christening, or other initiation ceremonies to admit a new member or a newborn baby.
Children are often welcomed into the meeting at their first attendance.
Formerly, children born to Quaker parents automatically became members (sometimes called Birthright membership), but this is no longer the case in many areas.
Some parents apply for membership on behalf of their children, while others allow the child to decide whether to become a member when they are ready, and older in age.
Some meetings adopt a policy that children, some time after becoming young adults, must apply independently for membership.
Traditional Quaker memorial services are held as a form of worship and are known as memorial meetings.
Friends gather for worship and offer remembrances about the deceased.
In some Quaker religious traditions, the coffin or ashes are not present.
Memorial meetings may be held many weeks after the death, which can enable wider attendance, and can also replace grief with spiritual reflection, and celebration of life to dominate.
Memorial meetings can last over an hour, particularly if many people attend.
Memorial services give everyone a chance to remember the lost individual in their own way, comforting those present, and re-affirming the love of the people in the wider community.
A meeting for worship for the solemnisation of marriage in an unprogrammed Friends meeting is similar to any other unprogrammed Meeting for Worship.
The pair exchange vows before God and gathered witnesses, and the meeting returns to open worship.
At the rise of meeting, the witnesses, including the youngest children, are asked to sign the wedding certificate as a record.
In Great Britain, Quakers keep a separate record of the union and notify the General Register Office.
In the early days of the United States, there was doubt whether a marriage solemnized in that manner was entitled to legal recognition.
Over the years, each state has set rules for the procedure.
Most US states expect the marriage document to be signed by a single officiant (a priest, rabbi, minister, Justice of the Peace, etc.).
Quakers routinely modify the document to allow three or four Friends to sign as the officiant.
Often, these are the members of a committee of ministry and oversight, who have helped the couple plan their marriage.
Usually, a separate document containing their vows and the signatures of all present is kept by the couple, and often displayed prominently in their home.
In many Friends meetings, the couple meet with a clearness committee prior to the wedding.
This committee's purpose is to discuss with the couple the many aspects of marriage and life as a couple.
If the couple seems ready, the marriage is recommended to the meeting.
As in the wider society, there is a wide diversity of views on the issue of same-sex marriage, and Friends have varying views on the topic.
Various Friends meetings around the world have voiced support for, and have recognised, same-sex marriages.
In 1986, Hartford Friends Meeting in Connecticut, USA, reached the decision that "the Meeting recognizes a committed union in a celebration of marriage, under the care of the Meeting.
The same loving care and consideration should be given to both homosexual and heterosexual applicants as outlined in Faith and Practice."
Since then, some other meetings of liberal and progressive Friends from Australia, Britain, New Zealand, parts of North America, and other countries have recognised marriage between partners of the same sex.
In jurisdictions, where same-sex marriage is not recognised by the civil authorities, some meetings follow the practice of early Quakers in overseeing the union without reference to the state.
There are also Friends who do not support same-sex marriage, and some Evangelical and Pastoral yearly meetings in the United States have issued public statements stating that homosexuality is a sin.
Like many religious movements, the Religious Society of Friends has evolved, changed, and split into subgroups.
Quakerism started in England and Wales, and quickly spread to Ireland, the Netherlands, Barbados and North America.
Today Kenya is, by far, the country with the most Quakers.
Other countries with over 1,000 Quakers are Burundi, Bolivia, Cambodia, Canada, Guatemala, Ireland, Indonesia, Jamaica, Rwanda, Taiwan, Tanzania, Uganda, United Kingdom, and the United States.
Although the total number of Quakers is around 360,000 worldwide, Quaker influence is concentrated in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Kaimosi, Kenya; Newberg, Oregon; Greenleaf, Idaho; Whittier, California; Richmond, Indiana; Friendswood, Texas; Birmingham, England; Ramallah, Palestine, and Greensboro, North Carolina.
The highest concentration of Quakers is in Africa.
The Friends of East Africa were at one time part of a single East Africa Yearly Meeting, then the world's largest yearly meeting.
Today, this region is served by several distinct yearly meetings.
Most of these are affiliated with the Friends United Meeting, practice programmed worship and employ pastors.
Friends meet in Rwanda and Burundi, as well as new work beginning in North Africa.
Small unprogrammed meetings exist also in Botswana, Ghana, Lesotho, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa and Zimbabwe.
Friends in Australia and New Zealand follow the unprogrammed tradition, similar to Britain Yearly Meeting.
Considerable distances between the colonies and small numbers of Quakers meant that Australia Friends were dependent on London until the 20th century.
The Society remained unprogrammed and is named Australia Yearly Meeting, with local organizations around seven Regional Meetings: Canberra (which extends into southern New South Wales), New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia (which extends into Northern Territory), Tasmania, Victoria, and Western Australia.
The Friends' School is found in Hobart.
An annual meeting each January, is hosted by a different Regional Meeting over a seven-year cycle, with a Standing Committee each July or August.
The Australia Yearly Meeting published This We Can Say: Australian Quaker Life, Faith and Thought, in 2003.
Meetings for worship in New Zealand started in Nelson in 1842, and in Auckland in 1885.
The New Zealand Yearly Meeting, today consists of nine monthly meetings.
The Yearly Meeting published Quaker Faith and Practice in Aotearoa New Zealand, in 2003.
Quaker meetings occur in India, Hong Kong, Korea, Philippines, Japan and Nepal.
India has four yearly meetings – the unprogrammed Mid-India Yearly Meeting, programmed Bhopal Yearly Meeting, and the Mahoba Yearly Meeting.
Bundelkhand Yearly Meeting is an evangelical Friends Church affiliated to Evangelical Friends International.
Other programmed and unprogrammed worship groups are not affiliated with any yearly meeting.
Evangelical Friends Churches exist in the Philippines and Nepal, and are affiliated with Evangelical Friends International.
In the United Kingdom, the predominantly liberal and unprogrammed Yearly Meeting of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) in Britain, has 478 local meetings, and a total of 14,260 adult members, and an additional 8,560 non-member adults who attend worship and 2,251 children.
The number has declined steadily since the mid-20th century.
Programmed meetings occur, including in Wem and London.
Small groups of Conservative Friends meet in Ripley and Greenwich in England, and Arbroath in Scotland, who follow Ohio Yearly Meeting's Book of Discipline.
Evangelical Friends Central Europe Yearly Meeting has 4,306 members across six nations, including Albania, Hungary and Romania.
Ireland Yearly Meeting is unprogrammed and is more conservative than Britain Yearly Meeting.
They have 1,591 members in 28 meetings across the Republic of Ireland, and in Northern Ireland.
German Yearly Meeting is unprogrammed and liberal, and has 338 members, worshipping in 31 meetings, in Germany and in Austria.
Small groups of Friends in Belgium, Luxembourg, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Greece, Italy, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Palestine, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland, attend meetings for worship there.
Middle East Yearly Meeting has meetings in Lebanon and Palestine.
There has been an active and vibrant Palestinian Quaker community in Ramallah since the late 1800s.
In 1910 this community built the Ramallah Friends Meetinghouse and later added another building that was used for community outreach.
The Ramallah Friends Meeting has always played a vital role in the community.
In 1948 the buildings and grounds became the home to many Palestinian refugees.
Throughout the years, the members of the Ramallah Friends Meeting organized numerous community programs such as the Children’s Play Center, the First Day School, and women’s activities.
By the early 1990s the Meetinghouse and Annex, which housed meeting rooms and bathroom facilities, fell into disrepair as a result of damage inflicted by time and impact of conflict.
So serious was the deterioration of the meetinghouse that by the middle 1990s it was impossible to use the building at all.
A further blow to the Friends and the wider Palestinian community was the high level of emigration brought on by the economic situation and the hardships arising from the continuing Israeli military occupation.
The Meetinghouse, which had served as a place of worship for the Friends in Ramallah could no longer be used as such and the Annex could no longer be used for community outreach.
In 2002 a committee consisting of members of the Religious Society of Friends in the US and the Clerk of the Ramallah Meeting began to raise funds for the renovations of the buildings and grounds of the Meetinghouse.
By November, 2004 the renovations were complete, and on March 6, 2005, exactly 95 years to the day after the dedication, the Meetinghouse and Annex were rededicated as a Quaker and community resource.
Friends meet every Sunday morning at 10:30&nbsp;a.m. for unprogrammed Meeting for Worship.
Everyone is welcome to attend.
Quakers can be found throughout Canada.
Some of the largest concentrations are in Southern Ontario.
Friends in the United States have diverse worship styles and differences of theology, vocabulary, and practice.
A local congregation in the unprogrammed tradition is called a meeting, or a monthly meeting (e.g., Smalltown Meeting or Smalltown Monthly Meeting).
The reference to "monthly" is because the meeting meets monthly to conduct the group's business.
Most "monthly meetings" meet for worship at least once a week; some meetings have several worship meetings during the week.
In programmed traditions, local congregations are often referred to as "Friends Churches."
Monthly meetings are often part of a regional group called a quarterly meeting, which is usually part of an even larger group called a yearly meeting; with the adjectives "quarterly" and "yearly" referring specifically to the frequency of meetings for worship with a concern for business.
Some yearly meetings belong to larger organizations to help maintain order and communication within the Society.
The three chief ones are Friends General Conference (FGC), Friends United Meeting (FUM), and Evangelical Friends Church International (EFCI).
In all three groups, most member organizations, though not necessarily members are from the United States.
FGC is theologically the most liberal of the three groups, while EFCI is the most evangelical.
Friends United Meeting was originally known as "Five Years Meeting."
Some monthly meetings belong to more than one larger organization, while others are fully independent.
Many Quakers prior to the 20th century, considered the Religious Society of Friends to be a Christian movement, but did not feel that their religious faith fit within the categories of Catholic, Orthodox, or Protestant.
Many Conservative Friends, while fully seeing themselves as orthodox Christians, choose to remain separate from other Christian groups.
Many Friends in Liberal Friends' meetings are actively involved in the ecumenical movement, often working closely with other Mainline Protestant and liberal Christian churches, with whom they share common religious ground.
A concern for peace and social justice often brings Friends together with other Christian churches and other Christian groups.
Some Liberal Quaker yearly meetings are members of ecumenical pan-Christian organizations, which include Protestant, Orthodox, and Anglican churches — for example Philadelphia Yearly Meeting is a member of the National Council of Churches.
Britain Yearly Meeting is a member of Churches Together in Britain and Ireland, and Friends General Conference is a member of the World Council of Churches.
Guerneyite Friends would typically see themselves as part of an orthodox Christian movement and work closely with other Christian groups.
Friends United Meeting (the international organization of Gurneyite yearly meetings) is a member of the National Council of Churches and the World Council of Churches, which are pan-Christian organizations, which include Protestant, Orthodox, and Anglican churches.
Evangelical Friends work closely with other evangelical churches from other Christian traditions.
The North American branch of Evangelical Friends Church International is a member church of the National Association of Evangelicals.
Evangelical Friends tend to be less involved with non-evangelical churches and are not members of the World Council of Churches or National Council of Churches.
The majority of other Christian groups recognize Friends among their fellow-Christians.
Some people who attend Quaker Meetings assume that Quakers are not Christians, when they do not hear overtly Christian language during the meeting for worship.
Relationships between Quakers and non-Christians vary considerably, according to sect, geography, and history.
Early Quakers distanced themselves from practices that they saw as pagan, such as by refusing to use the usual names of days of the week, since they derive from names of pagan deities.
They refused to celebrate Christmas because they believed it was based on pagan festivities.
Early Friends attempted to convert adherents of other world religions to Christianity.
For example, George Fox wrote a number of open letters to Jews and Muslims, in which he encouraged them to turn to Jesus Christ as the only path to salvation (e.g.
A Visitation to the Jews, To the Great Turk and King of Algiers in Algeria, and all that are under his authority, to read this over, which concerns their salvation and To the Great Turk and King of Algiers in Algeria.
Mary Fisher attempted to convert the Muslim Mehmed IV (the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire) in 1658.
In 1870, Richard Price Hallowell argued that the logical extension of Christian Quakerism is a universal Church, which demands a religion which embraces Jew, Pagan and Christian, and which cannot be limited by the dogmas of one or the other.
Since the late 20th century, some attenders at Liberal Quaker Meetings have actively identified with world faiths other than Christianity, such as Judaism, Islam, Buddhism and Paganism.
Belief is the state of mind in which a person thinks something to be the case, with or without there being empirical evidence to prove that something is the case with factual certainty.
In other words, belief is when someone thinks something is reality, true, when they have no absolute verified foundation for their certainty of the truth or realness of something.
Another way of defining belief is, it is a mental representation of an attitude positively orientated towards the likelihood of something being true.
In the context of Ancient Greek thought, two related concepts were identified with regards to the concept of belief: pistis and doxa.
Simplified, we may say that pistis refers to trust and confidence, while doxa refers to opinion and acceptance.
The English word doctrine is derived from doxa.
Belief's purpose is to guide action and not to indicate truth.
In epistemology, philosophers use the term ‘belief’ to refer to personal attitudes associated with true or false ideas and concepts.
However, ‘belief’ does not require active introspection and circumspection.
For example, we never ponder whether or not the sun will rise.
We simply assume the sun will rise.
Since ‘belief’ is an important aspect of mundane life, according to the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, the question that must be answered is, “how a physical organism can have beliefs” (<nowiki>http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/belief/</nowiki>).
Epistemology is concerned with delineating the boundary between justified belief and opinion, and involved generally with a theoretical philosophical study of knowledge.
The primary problem in epistemology is to understand exactly what is needed in order for us to have knowledge.
In a notion derived from Plato's dialogue Theaetetus, where the epistemology of Socrates (Platon) most clearly departs from that of the sophists, who at the time of Plato seem to have defined knowledge as what is here expressed as "justified true belief".
The tendency to translate from belief (here: doxa - common opinion) to knowledge (here: episteme), which Plato (e.g.
Socrates of the dialogue) utterly dismisses, results from failing to distinguish a dispositive belief (gr.
'doxa', not 'pistis') from knowledge (episteme) when the opinion is regarded true (here: orthé), in terms of right, and juristically so (according to the premises of the dialogue).
Which was the task of the rhetors to prove.
Plato dismisses this possibility of an affirmative relation between belief (i.e.
opinion) and knowledge even when the one who opines grounds his belief on the rule, and is able to add justification (gr.
logos: reasonable and necessarily plausible assertions/evidence/guidance) to it [1].
It is important to keep in mind that the sort of belief in the context of Theaetetus is not derived from the theological concept of belief, which is pistis, but doxa, which in theological terms refers to acceptance in the form of praise and glory.
Strangely, or not, Plato has been credited for the "justified true belief" theory of knowledge, even though Plato in the Theaetetus (dialogue) elegantly dismisses it, and even posits this argument of Socrates as a cause for his death penalty .
Among American epistemologists, Gettier (1963) and Goldman (1967), have questioned the "justified true belief" definition, and challenged the "sophists" of their time.
Mainstream psychology and related disciplines have traditionally treated belief as if it were the simplest form of mental representation and therefore one of the building blocks of conscious thought.
Philosophers have tended to be more abstract in their analysis, and much of the work examining the viability of the belief concept stems from philosophical analysis.
The concept of belief presumes a subject (the believer) and an object of belief (the proposition).
So, like other propositional attitudes, belief implies the existence of mental states and intentionality, both of which are hotly debated topics in the philosophy of mind, whose foundations and relation to brain states are still controversial.
Beliefs are sometimes divided into core beliefs (that are actively thought about) and dispositional beliefs (that may be ascribed to someone who has not thought about the issue).
For example, if asked "do you believe tigers wear pink pajamas?"
a person might answer that they do not, despite the fact they may never have thought about this situation before.
This has important implications for understanding the neuropsychology and neuroscience of belief.
If the concept of belief is incoherent, then any attempt to find the underlying neural processes that support it will fail.
Philosopher Lynne Rudder Baker has outlined four main contemporary approaches to belief in her controversial book Saving Belief: Historically belief-in belonged in the realm of religious thought, belief-that instead belonged to epistemological considerations.
To "believe in" someone or something is a distinct concept from "believing-that."
There are at least these types of belief-in: Economic beliefs are beliefs which are reasonably and necessarily contrary to the tenet of rational choice or instrumental rationality.
Studies of the Austrian tradition of the economic thought, in the context of analysis of the influence and subsequent degree of change resulting from existing economic knowledge and belief, has contributed the most to the subsequent holistic collective analysis.
Insofar as the truth of belief is expressed in sentential and propositional form we are using the sense of belief-that rather than belief-in.
Delusion arises when the truth value of the form is clearly nil.
Delusions are defined as beliefs in psychiatric diagnostic criteria (for example in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders).
Psychiatrist and historian G.E.
Berrios has challenged the view that delusions are genuine beliefs and instead labels them as "empty speech acts," where affected persons are motivated to express false or bizarre belief statements due to an underlying psychological disturbance.
However, the majority of mental health professionals and researchers treat delusions as if they were genuine beliefs.
In Lewis Carroll's Through the Looking-Glass the White Queen says, "Why, sometimes I've believed as many as six impossible things before breakfast."
This is often quoted in mockery of the common ability of people to entertain beliefs contrary to fact.
Psychologists study belief formation and the relationship between beliefs and actions.
Three models of belief formation and change have been proposed: When people are asked to estimate the likelihood that a statement is true, they search their memory for information that has implications for the validity of this statement.
Once this information has been identified, they estimate a) the likelihood that the statement would be true if the information were true, and b) the likelihood that the statement would be true if the information were false.
If their estimates for these two probabilities differ, people average them, weighting each by the likelihood that the information is true and false (respectively).
Thus, information bears directly on beliefs of another, related statement.
Unlike the previous model, this one takes into consideration the possibility of multiple factors influencing belief formation.
Using regression procedures, this model predicts belief formation on the basis of several different pieces of information, with weights assigned to each piece on the basis of their relative importance.
These models address the fact that the responses people have to belief-relevant information is unlikely to be predicted from the objective basis of the information that they can recall at the time their beliefs are reported.
Instead, these responses reflect the number and meaning of the thoughts that people have about the message at the time that they encounter it.
Some influences on people's belief formation include: However, even educated people, well aware of the process by which beliefs form, still strongly cling to their beliefs, and act on those beliefs even against their own self-interest.
In Anna Rowley's book, Leadership Therapy, she states "You want your beliefs to change.
It's proof that you are keeping your eyes open, living fully, and welcoming everything that the world and people around you can teach you."
This means that peoples' beliefs should evolve as they gain new experiences.
Justified true belief is a definition of knowledge that is most frequently credited to Plato and his dialogues.
The concept of justified true belief states that in order to know that a given proposition is true, one must not only believe the relevant true proposition, but also have justification for doing so.
In more formal terms, a subject <math>S</math> knows that a proposition <math>P</math> is true if and only if: This theory of knowledge suffered a significant setback with the discovery of Gettier problems, situations in which the above conditions were seemingly met but that many philosophers disagree that anything is known.
Robert Nozick suggested a clarification of "justification" which he believed eliminates the problem: the justification has to be such that were the justification false, the knowledge would be false.
If so we can say belief becomes knowledge (accepted reality) when it is justified.
An extensive amount of scientific research and philosophical discussion exists around the modification of beliefs, which is commonly referred to as belief revision.
Generally speaking, the process of belief revision entails the believer weighing the set of truths and/or evidence, and the dominance of a set of truths or evidence on an alternative to a held belief can lead to revision.
One process of belief revision is Bayesian updating and is often referenced for its mathematical basis and conceptual simplicity.
However, such a process may not be representative for individuals whose beliefs are not easily characterized as probabilistic.
There are several techniques for individuals or groups to change the beliefs of others; these methods generally fall under the umbrella of persuasion.
Persuasion can take on more specific forms such as consciousness raising when considered in an activist or political context.
Belief modification may also occur as a result of the experience of outcomes.
Because goals are based, in part on beliefs, the success or failure at a particular goal may contribute to modification of beliefs that supported the original goal.
Whether or not belief modification actually occurs is dependent not only on the extent of truths or evidence for the alternative belief, but also characteristics outside the specific truths or evidence.
This includes, but is not limited to: the source characteristics of the message, such as credibility; social pressures; the anticipated consequences of a modification; or the ability of the individual or group to act on the modification.
Therefore, individuals seeking to achieve belief modification in themselves or others need to consider all possible forms of resistance to belief revision.
Without qualification, "belief" normally implies a lack of doubt, especially insofar as it is a designation of a life stance.
In practical everyday use however, belief is normally partial and retractable with varying degrees of certainty.
A copious literature exists in multiple disciplines to accommodate this reality.
In mathematics probability, fuzzy logic, fuzzy set theory, and other topics are largely directed to this.
Different psychological models have tried to predict people's beliefs and some of them try to estimate the exact probabilities of beliefs.
For example, Robert Wyer developed a model of subjective probabilities.
When people rate the likelihood of a certain statement (e.g., "It will rain tomorrow"), this rating can be seen as a subjective probability value.
The subjective probability model posits that these subjective probabilities follow the same rules as objective probabilities.
For example, the law of total probability might be applied to predict a subjective probability value.
Wyer found that this model produces relatively accurate predictions for probabilities of single events and for changes in these probabilities, but that the probabilities of several beliefs linked by "and" or "or" do not follow the model as well.
Religious belief refers to attitudes towards mythological, supernatural, or spiritual aspects of a religion.
Religious belief is distinct from religious practice or religious behaviours with some believers not practicing religion and some practitioners not believing religion.
Religious beliefs, being derived from ideas that are exclusive to religion, often relate to the existence, characteristics and worship of a deity or deities, divine intervention in the universe and human life, or the deontological explanations for the values and practices centered on the teachings of a spiritual leader or group.
In contrast to other belief systems, religious beliefs are usually codified.
While it is popularly conceived that religions each have identifiable and exclusive sets of beliefs or creeds, surveys of religious belief have often found that the official doctrine and descriptions of the beliefs offered by religious authorities do not always agree with the privately held beliefs of those who identify as members of a particular religion.
A broad classification of the kinds of religious belief is documented below First self-applied as a term to the conservative doctrine outlined by anti-modernist Protestants in the United States of America, fundamentalism as a religious belief is associated with a strict adherence to an interpretation of scriptures that are generally associated with theologically conservative positions or traditional understandings of the text and are distrustful of innovative readings, new revelation, or alternate interpretations.
Religious fundamentalism has been identified in the media as being associated with fanatical or zealous political movements around the world that have used a strict adherence to a particular religious doctrine as a means to establish political identity and enforce societal norms.
First used in the context of Early Christianity, orthodoxy is a religious belief that closely follows the edicts, apologies, and hermeneutics of a prevailing religious authority.
In the case of Early Christianity, this authority was the communion of bishops, and is often referred to by the term [Magisterium].
The term orthodox was applied almost as an epithet to a group of Jewish believers who held to pre-Enlightenment understanding of Judaism and now known as Orthodox Judaism.
The Eastern Orthodox Church of Christianity, as well as the Catholic Church, consider themselves to be the true heir to the Early Christian belief and practice.
The antonym of orthodox is heterodox and those adhering to orthodoxy often accuse the heterodox of apostasy, schism, or heresy.
The Renaissance and later the Enlightenment in Europe were associated with varying degrees of religious tolerance and intolerance towards new religious ideas.
The Philosophes took particular exception to many of the more fantastical claims of religions and directly challenged religious authority and the prevailing beliefs associated with the established churches.
In response to the liberalizing political and social movements, some religious groups attempted to integrate Enlightenment ideals of rationality, equality, and individual liberty into their belief systems, especially into the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
Reform Judaism and Liberal Christianity are two examples of such religious associations.
A term signifying derogation that is used by the religious and non-religious alike, superstition is the deprecated belief in supernatural causation.
Those who deny the existence of the supernatural generally attribute all beliefs associated with it to be superstitious while a typical religious critique of superstition holds that it either encompasses beliefs in non-existent supernatural activity or that the supernatural activity is inappropriately feared or held in improper regard (see idolatry).
Occultism, animism, paganism, and other folk religions were strongly condemned by Christian Churches as mean forms of superstition, though such condemnation did not necessarily eliminate the beliefs among the common people and many such religious beliefs persist to today.
In Buddhism, practice and progress along the spiritual path happens when one follows the system of Buddhist practice.
Any religion which follows (parts of) the fundamentals of this system has, according to the teachings of Buddha, good aspects to the extent it accords with this system.
Any religion which goes against (parts of) the fundamentals of this system, includes bad aspects too.
Any religion which does not teach certain parts of this system, is not because of this a 'bad' religion; it just lacks those teachings and is to that extent incomplete.
A question by the monk Subhadda to the Buddha: The reply by Buddha was: As a religious tradition, Hinduism has experienced many attempts at systemization.
In medieval times, Shankara advocated for the Advaita system of philosophy.
In recent times, Tamala Krishna Gosvami has researched the systemization of Krishna theology as expounded by Srila Prabhupada.
Some believe that religion cannot be separated from other aspects of life, or believe that certain cultures did not or do not separate their religious activities from other activities in the same way that some people in modern Western cultures do.
Some anthropologists report cultures in which gods are involved in every aspect of life - if a cow goes dry, a god has caused this, and must be propitiated, when the sun rises in the morning, a god has caused this, and must be thanked.
Even in modern Western cultures, many people see supernatural forces behind every event, as described by Carl Sagan in his book The Demon-Haunted World.
People with this worldview often consider the influence of Western culture to be inimical.
Others with this world view resist the influence of science, and believe that science, or "so-called science", should be guided by religion.
Still others with this worldview believe that all political decisions and laws should be guided by religion.
This last belief is written into the constitution of many Islamic nations, and is shared by some fundamentalist Christians.
In addition, beliefs about the supernatural or metaphysical may not presuppose a difference between any such thing as nature and non-nature, nor between science and what the most educated people believe.
In the view of some historians , the pre-Socratic Athenians saw science, political tradition, culture and religion as not easily distinguishable, but all part of the same body of knowledge and wisdom available to a community.
Adherents of particular religions deal with the differing doctrines and practices espoused by other religions in a variety of ways.
All strains of thought appear in different segments of all major world religions.
People with exclusivist beliefs typically explain other religions as either in error, or as corruptions or counterfeits of the true faith.
This approach is a fairly consistent feature among smaller new religious movements that often rely on doctrine that claims a unique revelation by the founder or leaders, and consider it a matter of faith that the religion has a monopoly on truth.
All three major Abrahamic monotheistic religions have passages in their holy scriptures that attest to the primacy of the scriptural testimony and indeed monotheism itself is often couched as an innovation characterized specifically by its explicit rejection of earlier polytheistic faiths.
Some exclusivist faiths incorporate a specific element of proselytization.
This is a strongly held belief in the Christian tradition which follows the doctrine of the Great Commission, and is less emphasized by the Islamic faith where the Quranic edict "There shall be no compulsion in religion" (2:256) is often quoted as a justification for toleration of alternative beliefs, while the Jewish tradition is one that does not actively seek out converts.
Exclusivism correlates with conservative, fundamentalist, and orthodox approaches of many religions while pluralistic and syncretist approaches either explicitly downplay or reject the exclusivist tendencies of the religion.
People with inclusivist beliefs recognize some truth in all faith systems, highlighting agreements and minimizing differences.
The attitude is sometimes associated with Interfaith dialogue or the Christian Ecumenical movement, though in principle such attempts at pluralism are not necessarily inclusivist and many actors in such interactions (for example, the Roman Catholic Church) still hold to exclusivist dogma while participating in inter-religious organizations.
Explicitly inclusivist religions include many that are associated with the New Age movement as well as modern reinterpretations of Hinduism and Buddhism.
The Bahá'í Faith considers it doctrine that there is truth in all faith systems.
People with pluralist beliefs make no distinction between faith systems, viewing each one as valid within a particular culture.
People with syncretistic views blend the views of a variety of different religions or traditional beliefs into a unique fusion which suits their particular experience and context (see eclecticism).
Unitarian Universalism is an example of a syncretistic faith.
Typical reasons for adherence to religion include: Typical reasons for rejection of religion include: A belief system is a set of mutually supportive beliefs.
The beliefs of any such system can be classified as religious, philosophical, ideological, or a combination of these.
Philosopher Jonathan Glover says that beliefs are always part of a belief system, and that tenanted belief systems are difficult for the tenants to completely revise or reject.
A collective belief is referred to when people speak of what 'we' believe when this is not simply elliptical for what 'we all' believe.
Sociologist Émile Durkheim wrote of collective beliefs and proposed that they, like all 'social facts', 'inhered in' social groups as opposed to individual persons.
Durkheim's discussion of collective belief, though suggestive, is relatively obscure.
Philosopher Margaret Gilbert has offered a related account in terms of the joint commitment of a number of persons to accept a certain belief as a body.
According to this account, individuals who together collectively believe something need not personally believe it themselves.
Gilbert's work on the topic has stimulated a developing literature among philosophers.
One question that has arisen is whether and how philosophical accounts of belief in general need to be sensitive to the possibility of collective belief.
Jonathan Glover believes that he and other philosophers ought to play some role in starting dialogues between people with deeply held, opposing beliefs, especially if there is risk of violence.
Glover also believes that philosophy can offer insights about beliefs that would be relevant to such dialogue.
Glover suggests that beliefs have to be considered holistically, and that no belief exists in isolation in the mind of the believer.
It always implicates and relates to other beliefs.
Glover provides the example of a patient with an illness who returns to a doctor, but the doctor says that the prescribed medicine is not working.
At that point, the patient has a great deal of flexibility in choosing what beliefs to keep or reject: the patient could believe that the doctor is incompetent, that the doctor's assistants made a mistake, that the patient's own body is unique in some unexpected way, that Western medicine is ineffective, or even that Western science is entirely unable to discover truths about ailments.
Glover maintains that any person can continue to hold any belief if they would really like to (e.g., with help from ad hoc hypotheses).
One belief can be held fixed, and other beliefs will be altered around it.
Glover warns that some beliefs may not be entirely explicitly believed (e.g., some people may not realize they have racist belief systems adopted from their environment as a child).
Glover believes that people tend to first realize that beliefs can change, and may be contingent on their upbringing, around age 12 or 15.
Glover emphasizes that beliefs are difficult to change.
He says that one may try to rebuild one's beliefs on more secure foundations (axioms), like building a new house, but warns that this may not be possible.
Glover offers the example of René Descartes, saying about Descartes that "[h]e starts off with the characteristic beliefs of a 17th-century Frenchman; he then junks the lot, he rebuilds the system, and somehow it looks a lot like the beliefs of a 17th-century Frenchman."
To Glover, belief systems are not like houses but are instead like boats.
As Glover puts it: "Maybe the whole thing needs rebuilding, but inevitably at any point you have to keep enough of it intact to keep floating."
Glover's final message is that if people talk about their beliefs, they may find more deep, relevant, philosophical ways in which they disagree (e.g., less obvious beliefs, or more deeply held beliefs).
Glover thinks that people often manage to find agreements and consensus through philosophy.
He says that at the very least, if people do not convert each other, they will hold their own beliefs more openmindedly and will be less likely to go to war over conflicting beliefs.Glover on systems of belief", Philosophy Bites Podcast, Oct 9 2011</ref> The British philosopher Stephen Law has described some belief systems (including belief in homeopathy, psychic powers, and alien abduction) as "claptrap" and said that they "draw people in and hold them captive so they become willing slaves to victory... if you get sucked in, it can be extremely difficult to think your way clear again".
Tréguier ( ) is a port town in the Côtes-d'Armor department in Brittany in northwestern France.
It is the capital of the province of Trégor.
Tréguier is located 36 m. N.W.
of Saint-Brieuc by road.
The port is situated about 5½ m. from the English Channel at the confluence of two streams that form the Tréguier River.
Tréguier (Trecorum), which dates from the sixth century, grew up round a monastery founded by Saint Tudwal (died c. 564).
In the 9th century it became the seat of a bishopric, suppressed on July 12, 1790 (decree of November 14, 1789).
Inhabitants of Tréguier are called trécorrois in French.
In 2008, 11.78% of primary school children attended bilingual schools.
Count Stephen of Tréguier was the second Earl of Richmond, inheriting the British peerage created by William the Conqueror for his second cousin Alan Rufus.
The United States Navy established a naval air station on 1 November 1918 to operate seaplanes during World War I.
The base closed shortly after the First Armistice at Compiègne.
The cathedral, remarkable in having three towers over the transept, one of which is surmounted by a fine spire, dates from the 14th and 15th centuries.
It contains the sumptuous modern mausoleum of Ivo of Kermartin (St Yves; d. 1303), a canon of the cathedral and patron saint of lawyers.
The building of the cathedral was largely due to him.
The Pardon of Saint Ivo, a religious festival, attracts an international audience drawn from the legal profession.
To the south of the church there is a cloister (1468) with graceful arcades.
Near the cathedral there is a statue of Ernest Renan, a native of the town.
As he was a prominent skeptic, author of the "pagan" Prayer on the Acropolis, the 1903 unveiling of Renan's statue, which also included a depiction of the goddess Athena, led to widespread protests from the Catholic Church.
The town also houses the Renan birthplace museum.
A notable war memorial, the Pleureuse de Tréguier, was designed by Francis Renaud.
A commemorative memorial to Anatole Le Braz by Armel Beaufils is in the jardin du poète.
The port and harbour are picturesque, containing many pretty waterfront restaurants and crêperies.
There are dramatic views of the quayside.
Saw-milling, boat-building and flaxstripping are carried on, together with trade in cereals, cloth, potatoes, etc.
The port carries on fishing and a coasting and small foreign trade.
Tro Breizh (Breton for "Tour of Brittany") is a Catholic pilgrimage that links the towns of the seven founding saints of Brittany, including Tréguier, Saint Tudwal's town.
The Pardon of Saint Yves is a major event.
As Yves is patron saint of the legal profession, it attracts Catholic lawyers and judges from all over the world.
Tréguier was the birthplace of: <gallery> Image:Maison Musée Ernest Renan Tréguier.jpg|Renan birthplace museum Image:EGL001.jpg|Cloister of St Tugdual's cathedral File:Hernot.JPG|The Calvary of Protest by Yves Hernot, created to protest the statue of Renan.
The Iglesia de Quinchao (Church of Quinchao) is located in the village of Quinchao, in the Chiloé Province, Los Lagos Region, Chile.
It is one of the main stops on a pilgrimage path on Chiloé.
It is one of the 16 Churches of Chiloé, a UNESCO World Heritage Site (since 30 November 2000) and was declared one of the National Monuments of Chile 26 July 1971.
The patron saint of the church is Our Lady of Grace, whose feast day is celebrated on December 8.
On this day hundreds of people flock to the village of Quinchao to participate in the Our Lady of Grace Festival, one of the most important religious festivals on the archipelago of Chiloé.
This is the main religious festival on the archipelago after that of Jesus of Nazareth in Caguach.
This church leads one of the 24 parishes that form the Diocese of Ancud.
The Church boasts a front esplanade that serves as an ample atrium.
It runs parallel to the sea, about one block from the coast.
Construction of the church as it originally stood concluded in 1880, using wood from cypress, canelo and avellano trees.
The church has subsequently undergone numerous restorations, particularly in the years 1906, 1960, 1993 and most recently in 2010.
This church and the Church of Santa María de Loreto, Achao are the only churches that remain of those built by the Jesuits.
It is the largest churches in Chiloé, measuring 52.8 meters long and 18.4 meters wide.
The tower reaches 18.3 meters high.
The church site was established in 1605 and referred to before 1767.
In 1906 the exterior corridors of the Church were eliminated.
In the 1960s an area in the rear was eliminated.
Restoration of the Church was carried out in 1993.
It was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in December 2000.
The Church had deteriorated to such an extent that it was closed in 2006.
No one could enter for fear it would totally collapse.
It was the first among the churches of Chiloé to be completely restored.
The restoration included putting in a concrete foundation.
Beams of coigüe wood and a new structural framework for the wooden floor were installed.
More than 80% of the structurally significant wood had to be changed, but 95% of the extant wood was reused.
90,000 larch shingles were installed.
In its previous incarnations, the Church was made principally from coigüe, ulm, and cypress woods.
Restored, there is much more larch and mañío wood.
The restoration took place between 1995 and 1997.
In 2006 there was a significant investment for more restoration, so the tower was taken down for meticulous reconstruction.
In 2012 the community of the Church and the Fundación Amigos de las iglesias de Chiloé (Friends of the Churches of Chiloé) were awarded a conservation prize for their work restoring the church from the National Monuments Council for the two stages of restoration that took place in 2007-2008 and 2009-2010.
Patricia Mondaca was the chief architect of the project.
Multiculturalism and Christianity have a long historical association.
Christianity originated as a sect of Judaism in the Middle East, as Jesus, the founder and central figure of Christianity, lived and held his ministry in the Middle East.
Paul the Apostle, an ethnic Jew who was born and lived in the Middle East, holds such importance to Christianity that some call him the religion's "Second Founder".
The greatest influence on Christianity after Paul, Augustine of Hippo, a Church Father, a Doctor of the Church, and an eminent theologian, was North African.
Under the influence of Paul, Christianity soon spread widely among non-Jews (Gentiles) of the Roman Empire.
The Roman Emperor Galerius issued an edict permitting the practice of the Christian religion under his rule in April 311.
In 313 Constantine I and Licinius announced toleration of Christianity in the Edict of Milan.
Constantine would become the first Christian emperor.
By 391, under the reign of Theodosius I, Christianity had become the most popular, or state religion.
Constantine I, the first emperor to embrace Christianity, was also the first emperor to openly promote the newly legalized religion.
As the political boundaries of the Western Roman Empire diminished and then collapsed, Christianity spread beyond the old borders of the Empire and into lands that never had been Romanized.
The Age of Discovery began with the voyage of Christopher Columbus c. 1492.
It is characterized by European colonization of missionary activity.
During the Age of Discovery, the Roman Catholic Church established a number of Missions in the Americas and other colonies in order to spread Christianity in the New World and to convert the indigenous peoples.
At the same time, missionaries such as Francis Xavier as well as other Jesuits, Augustinians, Franciscans and Dominicans were moving into Asia and the Far East.
The Portuguese sent missions into Africa.
While some of these missions were associated with imperialism and oppression, others (notably Matteo Ricci's Jesuit mission to China) were relatively peaceful and focused on integration rather than cultural imperialism.
The most famous colonization by Protestants in the New World was that of English Puritans in North America.
Unlike the Spanish or French, the English colonists made surprisingly little effort to evangelize the native peoples.
The Puritans, or Pilgrims, left England so that they could live in an area with Puritanism established as the exclusive civic religion.
Though they had left England because of the suppression of their religious practice, most Puritans had thereafter originally settled in the Low Countries but found the licentiousness there, where the state hesitated from enforcing religious practice, as unacceptable, and thus they set out for the New World and the hopes of a Puritan utopia.
Christianity is a religion open to all humanity that counts one out of every three people on earth among its members.
The Christian world encompasses a greater area of land than that of any other religious territory.
In terms of both population and geography, Christianity is the world's largest religion.
As such, Christianity contains a great diversity, and has followers from a wide range of ethnicities, nationalities, and cultures.
Both Europeans and non-Hispanic Whites are shrinking minorities in the Church.
In his book Enlarging the Story: Perspectives on Writing World Christian History, Richard Fox Young views the connection between Christianity and Eurocentrism as tenuous, and points to the postcolonial and non-European nature of the emerging Church and its impact on the development of World Christianity.
In the postcolonial world, Christianity has lost its association with the West.
At the turn of the millennium, 60% of the world's two billion Christians lived in Africa, Latin America, or Asia, and by 2025, those demographics will shift to an estimated 67% of the world's three billion Christians.
The rise of Christianity in the southern hemisphere, especially northern Africa and Latin America, in the late 20th and early 21st centuries is a "grassroots movement" that has generated new forms of Christian theology and worship, and shifted the cultural and geographic focal point of the Church away from the West.
The prominence of the southern hemisphere's Christianity has brought with it a cultural and intellectual diversity to World Christianity, and contributed such ideas as Liberation Theology.
This is a list of notable buildings in Ottawa, Canada.
See: List of embassies and high commissions in Ottawa See also: List of religious buildings in Ottawa, List of Ottawa churches, List of Ottawa synagogues, List of Ottawa mosques A map of downtown Ottawa, including parts of Lower Town, Sandy Hill, and downtown Hull.< <br> Click on the stars to read articles on individual buildings.
The government of the Soviet Union followed an unofficial policy of state atheism, aiming to gradually eliminate religious belief within its borders and to replace it with atheism.
While it never officially made religion illegal, the state nevertheless made great efforts to reduce the prevalence of religious belief within society.
To this end, at various times in its history it engaged in anti-religious persecutions of varying intensity and methodology.
Believers were never officially attacked for being believers, but they were officially attacked for real or perceived political opposition to the state and to its policies.
These attacks, however, in the broader ideological context were ultimately meant to serve the ultimate goal of eliminating religion and of replacing it with atheism, and the perceived political opposition acted as a legal pretext to carry this out.
Thus, although the Soviet Union was officially a secular state and guaranteed freedom of religion in its constitutions, in practice believers suffered discrimination and were widely attacked for promoting religion.
As part of its anti-religious campaigns, the Soviet state enacted a significant body of legislation that regulated and curtailed religious practices.
This, along with many secret instructions that were not published, formed the legal basis for the Soviet state's anti-religious stance.
Laws were designed in order to hurt and hamper religious activities, and the state often vigilantly watched religious believers for their breaking of these laws to justify arresting them.
In some places, volunteer neighbourhood committees, called "public commissions for control over observance on the laws about religious cults", watched their religious neighbours and reported violations of the law to the appropriate authorities.
The state sought to control religious bodies through such laws with the intention of making those bodies disappear.
Often such laws incorporated many ambiguities that allowed for the state to abuse them in order to persecute believers.
This article lists and discusses some of the most important legislation below, although this list is by no means comprehensive.
From November 1917 until Lenin's Decree on the Separation of Church and State in January 1918, legislative measures against religion were enacted.
i) Act of the Commissar of Education, 11 December 1917: ...
It is declared that all control of educational matters shall be handed over to the Commissariat of Education from all religious organizations.
All church/parish schools, teachers colleges, religious colleges and seminaries, ... all missionary schools, [and] all academies ... with all of their property, both movable and immovable, i.e.
with all buildings ... land, with all gardens, with all libraries ... valuables, capital and vulnerable papers ... and with all that was credited to the above-mentioned schools and institutions, shall likewise be handed over to the Commissariat of Education.
... (Chairman of the Council of People's Commissars VI Lenin).
ii) Decree on the Dissolution of Marriage (Divorce), 18 December 1917: ... 12 ... All records currently in the possession of any religious organization are to be handed over to the local courts without delay.
... All decisions regarding the dissolution of marriage already made or in the process of being ruled upon by any religious organization or by any of its representatives, are hereby declared destroyed and not valid, they are to be decided upon by the local courts upon their taking possession of the appropriate records.
Parties not wishing to wait until this takes place have the right to issue a new petition for the dissolution of their marriage as described by this decree.
... (Chairman of the Council of People's Commissars VI Lenin) iii) Decree on Civic Marriages, on Children, and on the Introduction of Books or Records, 18 December 1917: The Russian Republic from now on recognizes only civil marriages.
... (Chairman of the Council of People's Commissars VI Lenin) iv) Order of the People's Commissar of Military Affairs No.
39, 16 January 1918, On the prohibition of all powers of religious departments: v) Order of the People's Commissar of Welfare, 20 January 1918: The distribution of subsidies for the maintenance of churches, chapels, and for the operations of religious orders are to be halted.
Governmental support of clergy and teachers of religion is to be halted as of 1 March of this year.
... Church services and the fulfillment of the needs of believers may be continued on the condition of an expressed desire by collectives of believers who must assume the full cost of repairs and maintenance of churches, [and] of all inventory and all servers.
This meant that religious communities from then onward had to rely entirely upon the voluntary support of its laity in order to continue existence.
Lenin's important 1918 Decree on the Separation of Church and State was followed by another body of legislation.
Lenin's legislative acts would form what would be called the 'Leninist legality' and would be considered a milestone and a reference point for later anti-religious campaigns and thought.
Among key legislation passed included: i) Separation of the Church from the State and the Schools from the Church: Decree of the Soviet of People's Commissars, 12 January 1918: According to Riho Altnurme, 'disturbing public order' was used as grounds to outlaw religions sects with 'extreme mysticism' such as Skoptsy, Hlysty, Pentecostals and Jehovah's Witnesses.
According to Gregory Freeze, church hierarchies and dioceses could not legally exist under Soviet law, and therefore if believers received instruction from priests or bishops as though such people were spiritual authorities, they could be punished along with the offending clergymen.
In effect this made it extremely difficult for dioceses to be run except in a chaotic fashion; it also allowed for laity to assert increasing control over their churches and sometimes to have conflicts with the hierarchy as a result (and such conflicts were encouraged by the state).
ii) Constitution of the Russian Federated Socialist Republic, 10 July 1918: Article Two: General Provisions of the Constitution of the Russian Socialist Federated Soviet Republic.
This right to carry out religious propaganda was limited by censorship in 1918 up until the right was later removed.
Church presses were confiscated and virtually all church periodicals were shut down; the hierarchy was denied much ability to influence lay opinion in the hope that this would sow discord and confusion in the church.
The Constitution was later modified in 1929, and the right of religious groupings to carry out religious propaganda was taken away, and it was made completely illegal to try to defend religion against atheist arguments or to engage in public discussion on religion.
In its place the language read (Article 52) that all citizens had a right to "conduct religious worship or atheist propaganda".
Article Four: The Right to Vote.
iii) Declaration of the People's Commissar of Education, 17 February 1918: All teachers of religion of all religions are relieved of all of their duties and responsibilities as of the 1st of January 1918. iv) Declaration by the People's Commissar of Public Property, 14 January 1918: The Court Clergy is abolished.
The protection of Court churches, as artistic and national monuments, is temporarily assigned to the Committees and Commissars of those places and institutions to which the churches are attached.
If any religious society declares a desire to celebrate in those churches, then it will have to take upon itself the full cost of supporting the clergy, other religious servers and other associated costs... (Deputy People's Commissar Iu.
v) Declaration of the People's Commissar of Justice, 24 August 1918: This allowed for local authorities to fill a religious building's administration with citizens and thereby take control of the parish or faith community, even to the extent of 'voluntarily' shutting down the building.
i) Act #259 of the People's Commissar of Internal Affairs, 30 July 1929: According to Dimitry Pospielovsky, this meant that religious minister could be charged from 5 to 10 times the rent that would be required from workers for the same property.
ii) Act of the All-Russian Central Administrative Committee and Soviet of People's Commissars RSFSR, 8 April 1929: Pospielovsky argued that a priest could not live with a parishioner or relative in government-owned housing.
iii) Decree of SNK RSFSR #23-24, 1929: High taxes on religious buildings and clergy were meant to cripple the religious bodies financially.
i) Circular NKF USSR #398, 10 September 1929: (People's Commissar of Finance Briukhanov) (Assistant Head of Taxation the RSFSR People's Commissariat of Finance Starobinsky) These come from the latter part of the 1920s.
i) Law on military obligations, 1 September 1928: Section 1: ...
The armed defence of the USSR shall be carried out only by the workers.
Non-worker elements are charged with the fulifillment of other tasks for the defence of the USSR.
Section 236: Citizens, free from military service on religious ground... are to be assigned to: in peacetime – public benefiting work (combating natural disasters, epidemics, etc.)...
and in wartime – special brigades for the servicing of the front and rear.
Local courts freed people from military service.
The Central Committee and the Soviet of People's Commissars of the USSR decrees: (Moscow, Kremlin, 10 April 1929) ii) Instruction for the Fulfilment of [the above] Decree, 25 April 1929: iii) Instruction on the Elections to the Soviets, Confirmed by the Presidium of the Central Committee, 4 November 1926: iv) Act of the Central Committee and the Soviet of People's Commissars, 11 January 1928: All Citizens of the USSR, who possess voting privileges... may organize consumer organizations to serve their consumer and household needs....
According to Pospielovsky, all clergy members (e.g.
the people mentioned in the above list who had their voting rights deprived) could not form, participate or benefit from consumer organizations.
This was very critical in some places of the country, since it was essential to be a member of such an organization in order to have access to any consumer goods.
v) Confirmation of the Central Committee, 15 December 1928: ...Those whose voting privileges have been suspended, have the last and lowest priority in land distribution for use... Members of land organizations are considered all those who... possess voting privileges... Pospielovsky argued that land organizations assigned land for all use.
T his meant that the clergy and non-voting members could not have a say in land allocation.
This was a very harsh measure against rural clergy who often depended on small gardens and farms for their survival.
If rural clergy did receive land from the land organization it was usually the worst land available, that no one else wanted.
In 1936, this unequal status was repealed by Article 124 of the new constitution, also known as the "Stalin" constitution, which redesigned the government of the Soviet Union.
Article 124 restored equal political rights to clergy (allowing them to run for office as well) on grounds that not all clergy were hostile to the regime and under the belief that the Soviet public ought to have been sufficiently 're-educated' by that point so as not to vote for people hostile to the regime.
vi) Act of the Soviet of People's Commissars of the USSR, 24 September 1929: According to Pospielovsky, since only every Sunday was a day of rest, this made it impossible to have regular Sunday church attendance.
The celebration of holidays such as Christmas or Easter was also hampered by mandatory work on those days.
A new volume of anti-religious legislation was introduced in 1929 due to the failure of the anti-religious campaign in the previous decade and the successful resistance that the church was able to fight against the atheistic propaganda.
The legislation would form part of the basis for the harsh persecution that would be carried out in the 1930s.
This 1929 legislation formed the main legal basis for the governing of religious activities in the USSR.
It would be added to by the Instruction on the Supervision over the Fulfillment of Religious Cults in 1961 and the 1965 Statue of the Council for Religious Affairs (CRA).
The 1929 laws would be amended later in 1975.
The 1929 legislation effectively curtailed the church's public presence and mostly limited religious activities to services conducted within religious buildings only.
According to Christel Lane and the United States Department of State Bulletin of 1986, this meant that those under 18 years of age could not be part of a religion and therefore the law required that they be excluded from religious activities.
According to Edward Derwinski, the state used this right to de-register religious groupings, thus making it illegal for them to continue worship, and this was used to gradually reduce the number of registered religious buildings (i.e.
churches, synagogues, mosques, etc.)
across the country.
Article 17 banned churches from being used for activities beyond worship, thereby outlawing parish libraries, organized religious education, prayer meetings for women and young people, religious study groups and sewing circles.
According to Jennifer Wynot, priests were forbidden from living in cities.
This meant that they had to get advanced permission.
Legislation passed in 1929 also forbade clergy or monastics from wearing religious garb in public.
Islamic courts in Central Asia that interpreted Shariah were fully eliminated after this legislation in 1929.
This legislation, drafted in 1961 during the height of a renewal persecution under Nikita Khrushchev, was designed to assist the anti-religious campaign especially with regard to the massive number of church closures that were conducted.
It gave the state tight control over religious practices.
Instruction on the Application of the Legislation on Religious Cults.
Approved on 16 March 1961: II The Activities of the Clergy and the Religious Associations must correspond to the following demands An exception was made for the sick and dying.
Supervision over the fulfilment of the Legislation on Cults Order and Procedures regarding Registration of Religious Associations, Opening and Closing of Prayer Houses V. Rules on the Use of Objects (Utensils) of the Cult Basically the same as in LRA.
A lesser role is given to the CROCA/CRC; a greater to local governments.
CROCA and CRC were amalgamated in 1965 to form the Council for Religious Affairs (CRA).
CROCA and CRC were originally created by Joseph Stalin during the second world war (1939–1945) as liaison bodies between religion and the government.
Under Nikita Khrushchev this function began to evolve into dictatorial bodies that exerted control over religious activities in the country.
Articles 24–26 were ambiguous enough, that in practice they could be effectively used in order to close churches on a wide scale, as occurred under Khrushchev.
The meagre protection that they offered (such as in article 26) were eliminated in 1975.
Articles 6, 7, 10 and 11 could also be used.
Choral singing, processions, church bells and other normal functions of churches could be interpreted as ‘disturbing public order’ and prohibited.
Article 7a–c could be used by the state, which could apply it to any homily or sermon it didn’t like.
For example, Bishop Khrizostom of Kursk criticized ‘scientific atheism’ and claimed that science also needed faith as a motivation for its development, and as a result the bishop lost his position in the Department of External Ecclesiastical Relations and was moved to the Urals in 1984.
Monks who preached about concentrating on the spiritual life and disregarding the temptations of the material world could be interpreted as ‘propaganda aimed at tearing believers away from active participation in the state’.
Fr Amvrossi was harassed and expelled twice in 1976 as a result of such homilies.
Before this legislation had taken effect, believers who preached against atheism could be arrested for making 'political' sermons that were interpreted as an attack on state ideology.
Article 10b in practice forbade priests from organizing pilgrimages, and from making claims of the miraculous.
Priests were de-registered and even imprisoned for telling their parishioners about miracles.
For example, Fr Sergi Zheludkov lost his registration in the 1960s for taking some of his parishioners to see supposed miraculous icon renewals (where an icon that is dark and covered with soot suddenly begin to shine again as though new).
Article 11, made it such that it was not the Church that decided to have a church council or how many theological colleges were needed for its spiritual needs but rather it was the government that decided.
Legislation in this year also gave the state control of financial activities of religious institutions and legally separated priests from control of parishes.
A further law in 1962 gave the state control of all baptisms, marriages, burial services and other religious rites.
In 1965 the Council for Religious Affairs (CRA) of the Council of Ministers was created from the amalgamation of CROCA and CRC.
This organization inherited the role of dictatorial control over religious life in the country and it used whatever means it could in order to disrupt or put down religious activities.
Its legal mandate was strengthened in the 1975 amendments to the LRA, although many of the powers that it would be officially given were things that it had already effectively been using (from its predecessors) since Nikita Khrushchev.
Adopted on 8 December 1965, confirmed on 10 May 1966 The 1929 legislation on religious associations was amended in 1975.
The most prominent difference was the status of the Council for Religious Affairs (created in 1965), which was given effective legal control and interference in the spiritual life of religious organizations.
The amendments are listed below.
According to Yakunin and Regelson, there was no time limit for when it had to make a decision and this legal ambiguity was abused by the CRA.
This allowed prayer houses to be closed down and reassigned for public purposes.
Deregistration of religious associations is enacted by the Council for Religious Affairs… on the representation from the Council of Ministers of an autonomous republic [etc.
]… The breaking of the laws on the separation of Church and State, and Schools and Church – is punishable by correctional labour for up to one year, or by a fine of up to fifty roubles… repeat offenders are to be imprisoned for up to three years.
The hindrance of prevention of the fulfillment of religious functions, so far as they do not harm the social order or infringe upon individual rights – is punishable by correctional labour for up to six months by a public reprimand.
Article 142 could only be applied to believers who violated the law, while article 143 was for non-believers.
This meant that in the unlikely scenario that a group of religious believers who sued a Soviet official, and an even less likely scenario of them winning the case, the guilty administrator would likely only have to face a public reprimand.
No matter how many times such an official could be found guilty, the most he could be punished would be six months or correctional labour, while believers could face up to three years imprisonment.
The systematic distribution of false information, harmful to the Soviet government, or to the social order, whether in oral, written, or any other form – is punishable by imprisonment for up to three years, or by correctional work for up to one year, or by a fine up to 100 roubles.
This included homilies condemning religious persecutions.
… the unlicensed construction of a dwelling or an addition – is punishable by correctional work for a period of 6 months to one year with a confiscation of the construction or addition.
This punished the expansion of a church without government authorization.
Organizations or the leadership of a group, which function under the guise of fulfilling religious duties, that are harmful, or that enlist other citizens into harmful activities by threat of expulsion from the religious group, or attempt to enlist or force others to enlist minors into the group – is punishable by imprisonment for up to five years, or banishment for up to five years with or without confiscation of property… According to Pospielovsky, this was interpreted to prohibit any missionary work, and threatened with imprisonment any person who attracted converts or who strengthened religious convictions.
This also allowed for the punishment of clergymen who tried to invoke spiritual discipline upon those under them who exhibited immoral or spiritually demoralizing behaviour.
Other laws not mentioned included prohibitions of teaching religion to children under the age of 18, requirements to register all baptisms and religious rites with the state, as well as forbidding of priests to be on church councils.
Praxis, a transliteration of the Greek word πρᾶξις (derived from the stem of the verb πράσσειν, prassein "to do, to act"), means "practice, action, doing".
More particularly, it means either: Eastern Christian writers, especially those in the Byzantine tradition, use the term "praxis" to refer to what others, using an English rather than a Greek word, call practice of the faith, especially with regard to ascetic and liturgical life.
Praxis is a key to understanding the Byzantine tradition, which is observed by the Eastern Orthodox Churches and some Eastern Catholic Churches, because praxis is the basis of the understanding of faith and works as conjoint, without separating the two.
The importance of praxis, in the sense of action, is indicated in the dictum of Saint Maximus the Confessor: "Theology without action is the theology of demons."
Union with God, to which Christians hold that Jesus invited man, requires not just faith, but correct practice of faith.
This idea is found in the Scriptures (1 Cor 11:2, 2 Thes 2:14) and the Church Fathers, and is linked with the term praxis in Byzantine theology and vocabulary.
[ [1] In the context of Orthodoxy, praxis is mentioned opposite theology, in the sense of 'theory and practice'.
[ [2] Rather, it is a word that means, globally, all that Orthodox do.http://www.orthodoxpraxis.org/article.php?id=2&menu=1 Praxis is 'living Orthodoxy'.
[ Praxis is perhaps most strongly associated with worship.
"Orthopraxis" is said to mean "right glory" or "right worship"[4]; only correct (or proper) practice, particularly correct worship, is understood as establishing the fulness glory given to God.
This is one of the primary purposes of liturgy (divine labor), the work of the people.
Some Byzantine sources maintain that in the West, Christianity has been reduced "to intellectual, ethical or social categories," whereas right worship is fundamentally important in our relationship to God, forming the faithful into the Body of Christ and providing the path to "true religious education.
"[ [5] A "symbiosis of worship and work" is considered to be inherent in Byzantine praxis.
[ Fasting, another key part of the practice of the Christian faith, is mentioned as part of Byzantine praxis, in connection with the Sermon on the Mount (Mt 6),[7] and in comparison with the history and commemorations of Lenten fasts.
[ Praxis may also refer to proper religious etiquette.
[ In the Latin Church, parallel ideas of asceticism and worship exist.
The word used in this regard is the regular English word "practice", since in English the term "praxis" is not normally used in this sense.
The simplest and most common understanding of the term "practising Catholic", a minimal interpretation of the phrase, is that the person has been baptized (or canonically received into full communion with the Catholic Church) and strives to observe the Church's precept of attending celebration of the Mass or Divine Liturgy on Sundays and holy days of obligation.
Someone who does not fulfil even this minimum requirement for being considered "practising" is referred to as a lapsed Catholic.
A more ample indication of what practice involves is given in a statement by Bishop Luc Matthys of Armidale, New South Wales, Australia.
Living the Catholic faith involves much more than the minimum requirements referred to above.
Matters such as fasting have applications that vary according to place and according to the autonomous particular Church to which a person belongs.
In each of the Eastern Catholic Churches, practice is generally the same as in the associated Eastern Church with which it is not in full communion.
Thus, practice in the Eastern Catholic Churches of Byzantine Rite is identical with that described above for the Churches that constitute the Eastern Orthodox Church, but differs from that of, for instance, the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church.
Within the Latin Church too, there are variations in such matters in accordance with rules laid down by the episcopal conferences in view of local conditions and traditions.
In English the word "praxis" is more commonly used in the sense not of practice but with the meaning given to it by Immanuel Kant, namely application of a theory to cases encountered in experience or reasoning about what there should be as opposed to what there is: this meaning Karl Marx made central to his philosophical ideal of transforming the world through revolutionary activity.
Inspired by Marxism, proponents of Latin American liberation theology have used the word "praxis" with specific reference to human activity directed towards transforming the conditions and causes of poverty.
Their "liberation theology" consists then in applying the Gospel to that praxis to guide and govern it.
Saint Paul University ( ) is a Catholic Pontifical university federated with the University of Ottawa.
It is located on Main Street in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, and is entrusted to the Congregation of the Missionary Oblates of Mary Immaculate.
The enabling legislation is a civil charter passed by the government of the then-Province of Canada in August 1866, and a pontifical declaration promulgated by Pope Leo XIII on 5 February 1889.
Like the University of Ottawa, Saint Paul University is a fully bilingual institution, offering instruction in English and French.
In 1848, Joseph-Bruno Guigues, the first bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Ottawa, established the College of Bytown.
In 1856, the College was officially entrusted to the Missionary Oblates of Mary Immaculate, and, in 1866, it was renamed the College of Ottawa.
The institution would later rewrite its pontifical charter in keeping with the Apostolic Constitution of Pope Pius XI, and also rewrote its civil charter around the same time.
Its rewritten civil charter was approved by the Government of Ontario in 1933, when it was officially renamed the University of Ottawa, and its revised pontifical charter was approved by the Holy See in 1934.
On July 1, 1965, by an act of the Ontario Legislature, the institution previously known as the University of Ottawa was renamed Saint Paul University, which retained its civil and pontifical charters, while a new corporate body, to be known as the University of Ottawa, was created to inherit the university's civil faculties.
Although the government wished to preserve the university's Christian character, it was felt that a separate institution would better fulfill the needs of the city's Catholic community.
The two universities became federated, and while Saint Paul University retains the authority to grant its own degrees, it reserves the right to jointly award degrees with the Senate of the University of Ottawa.
The university currently houses four faculties: Human Sciences, Philosophy, Theology and Canon Law.
Within these faculties are housed programs in 19 disciplines, ranging from the undergraduate to the doctoral level.
Such disciplines include: Anglican studies, biblical studies, canon law, canonical practice, conflict studies, counseling and spirituality, Eastern Christian studies, ecclesiastical administration, ethics, group facilitation, ministry, pastoral theology, philosophical theology, philosophy, public ethics, religious education, social communications, spirituality, and theology.
The Metropolitan Andrey Sheptytsky Institute of Eastern Christian Studies offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in Eastern Christian Studies, including the Eastern Orthodox, non-Chalcedonian, Assyrian, and Eastern Catholic churches.
Saint Paul University offers education for both the laity and candidates for ordination in the Roman Catholic, Anglican, and Eastern Catholic Churches.
The Bachelor of Theology and Master of Pastoral Theology (similar to the Master of Divinity) are the standard ordination-track degrees.
The university is a member of the Association of Colleges and Universities of the Canadian Francophonie, a network of academic institutions of the Canadian Francophonie.
The Sanzu River ( ), or River of Three Crossings, is a Japanese Buddhist tradition and religious belief similar to the Greek concept of the River Styx.
It is believed that the dead must cross the river on the way to the afterlife, a belief reflected in Japanese funerals when six coins are placed in the casket with the dead.
The Sanzu River is popularly believed to be located in Mount Osore, a suitably desolate and remote part of Aomori Prefecture in northern Japan.
Robert Beckford (born 1965) is a British academic theologian and currently a Professor in theology at Canterbury Christ Church University, whose documentaries for both the BBC and Channel 4 have caused debate among the Christian and British religious community.
Beckford was born to Jamaican parents in Northampton and was raised in the Pentecostal church.
He states that his "white, middle-class" religious education teacher "turned me on in a big way to RE and sowed the seeds to think about religion and culture", while his Communist maths tutor introduced him to politics and the work of Malcolm X, who is still a hero.
After A levels, Beckford studied religion and sociology at Houghton College, New York.
He then studied at the London Bible College, Middlesex.
After a year in the community, Beckford studied for his PhD while also working part-time at Queen's College, Birmingham, where he became Britain's first tutor in black theology.
Professionally, Beckford has spent his career in academia, beginning in 1999 as a Research Fellow at Birmingham University, then becoming a lecturer in African Diasporan Religions & Cultures.
For two years he was Reader in Black Theology and Popular Culture at Oxford Brookes University, and subsequently a visiting Professor of Sociology at Goldsmiths, University of London.
In 2006/7 he presented shows on BBC Radio WM, first the African Caribbean programme, and then the Sunday Breakfast Show, a blend of news, interviews and chat about religious and ethical issues.
In 2004, Beckford hosted a documentary called Who Wrote the Bible?
broadcast on Channel 4 on Christmas Day.
Beckford challenges the long standing belief by many Christians that the Bible is the pure, unadulterated word of God untouched by human hand.
He seeks to demonstrate that the Bible's history involves multiple revisions, exclusions and is the result of a number of different authors.
In 2006, Beckford made the film Ghetto Britain for the television station More 4.
Through the course of the documentary, he composes a manifesto of change that he plans to put before the Commission for Racial Equality.
Beckford has also made films for the BBC analysing religion and Britain's colonial history, focusing on the role of Britain's African Caribbean community.
On 15 April 2006, Beckford hosted his second one-off documentary, called The Passion: Films, Faith and Fury on Channel 4.
This was Beckford's exploration of the history and the increasingly uneasy relationship between religion and the film industry, as well as the controversy that often arises as a result of any major religiously-themed film being released.
Beckford hosted a documentary called The Secret Family of Jesus on Channel 4 on Christmas Day 2006.
In this documentary Beckford explores the history and legacy of Jesus' family.
Beckford presents historical evidence of: Jesus' familial relationship to John the Baptist; his family unit consisting of four brothers and (at least) two sisters; his relationship with Mary Magdalene; and of Jesus' ministry being passed to his eldest brother James for the approximately 30 years prior to the destruction of the second temple and the subsequent diaspora.
On 2007 Christmas Day, Beckford's documentary The Hidden Story of Jesus premiered on Channel 4.
It investigates the parallels between Christianity and other religions, some of which predate it.
In The Secrets of the Twelve Disciples, broadcast in Easter 2008, Beckford explored Paul the Apostle's role in founding the Church and his relationship with Jesus' family; the Roman Catholic Church's claim to Saint Peter; Thomas the Apostle's travels to India; James, son of Zebedee as a patron saint of Spain; the demonisation of Judas Iscariot; and female Apostles.
On 2008 Christmas Day, Beckford's documentary The Nativity Decoded premiered on Channel 4.
It provides an in-depth look at the nativity story, its traditions, history and meaning.
Szilárd Keresztes (born July 19, 1932, in Nyíracsád, Hungary) is an Hungarian Greek Catholic retired bishop.
He was bishop of the Hungarian Greek Catholic diocese of Hajdúdorog and apostolic governor of Miskolc from 1975 to 2008.
The newly founded Greek Catholic seminary Nyíregyháza Institute was the first year of a member, 1950-1955 until he studied at the institution.
On August 7, 1955, Keresztes was ordained Bishop by Nicholas Dudas in Nyíregyháza.
In 1957, earned a doctorate in theology at the Academy of Theology.
From 1957 until 1960 was the organizing pastor in Budapest(Kispest).
Between 1960-1970 he was an assistant pastor and a cantor in Nyíregyháza.
From 1961 to 1975 he worked as a teacher of theology in the Theological College of Nyíregyháza, teaching Dogmatics as a college professor, philosophy, and religious education.
From 1966 to 1969 he worked as a scholarship in Rome the Pontifical Institute of Hungary, where the Pontifical Oriental Institute of the Eastern Church Studies Faculty obtained a license.
In 1970, became a canon of the cathedral.
From 1971 to 1976 Keresztes was administrator of parishers in Nyíregyháza.
On January 10, 1975, Pope Paul VI appointed him titular bishop.
1975th On February 8, 1975, dr. Imre Timko consecrated him in Nyíregyháza and Szeged Cserháti Joseph Joachim bishop of Pécs assistants.
From 1975 to 1988 he was assistant bishop vicar of Budapest and in Miskolc he was the Apostolic Vicar General Governorship.
From 1984 until 1988 in the Eastern Kódexrevíziós Pontifical Commission he worked.
Between 1987-1988 was rector of the Roman Pontifical Institute of Hungary.
On June 30, 1988, Pope John Paul II named him Hajdúdorog diocesan bishop and Apostolic Exarchate of Miskolc.
On February 28, 2000 he celebrated the consecration of a bishop.
Pope John Paul II greeted him by a personal letter.
1988-1990 Committee member of the Pontifical Oriental Kódexrevíziós.
1989-94 to the members of the Congregation for Eastern Churches.
2000th September 11, from the immigrants and members of the Pontifical Council Útonlevők.
By 2008, the Hungarian Catholic Bishops' Conference Committee for Migration and the Economic Commission chairman.
Saint Nicholas Nursery School, Nyíregyháza The St. Nicholas was founded in 1990 kindergarten Cross Solid Hajdúdorog bishop Nyíregyháza.
The preparations, after the state returned music school building (Bethlen G Street) started its activities in the kindergarten in September 1996.
Then the bishop in May 2004 devoted to the new building (Whistle Street), with effect from 1 September to kindergarten there.
Greek Catholic Education Centre, Hajdúdorog Solid Cross in June 1991 the Greek Catholic Grammar School founded by the Basilian monks run by, established in 1942 Hajdúdorog Hungarian Greek Catholic Fiúlíceum Cantor and Teacher-Training Institute site.
By 1998, the old monastery was built around the building complex which houses the education building, a chapel and school house.
2006th From September 1 Greek Catholic Education Centre operates under the name of the institution Miskolc Greek Catholic Primary School The Hungarian Government "Award for Minorities" (1996) Hajdúdorog Freeman of the City (1996) The Hungarian Order of Merit Cross (1997)
Michael Dallat (1925–2000) D.D.
M.A.
S.T.L.
was the Titular Bishop of Thala and Auxiliary Bishop of The Diocese of Down and Connor.
Dallat was a native of Ballycastle, a town that still has two other living bishops among its sons.
After post primary education in St Malachy's College (1938–43), he proceeded to Queen's where he graduated with an M.A.
in History (1947).
He was one of the first generation of students who began to study theology in Rome after the war.
His theology studies (1947–51) were completed at the Pontifical Lateran University, where he obtained an Licentiate in Sacred Theology.
Dallat was ordained priest for the Diocese of Down and Connor on 10 March 1951.
Following ordination, he was sent to pursue further studies for four years at the Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium (1951–55).
He took courses in Sociology and Historical Science.
It was a source of some amusement that a man who, as Bishop Patrick Walsh said at his funeral "would never use a paragraph when a sentence would do", obtained further postgraduate qualifications with unusually long titles -Lic.en Pol et Soc, Lic en Sc Hist.!
He then spent much of his life in the field of education.
Initially he was appointed to the teaching staff of St Malachy's College, his alma mater, before beginning his 24 years in teacher training.
He initially taught in St Mary's Teacher Training College (1963–69), and was then appointed as Principal of St Joseph’s Teacher Training College.
During the 1970s he was a staunch defender of the principles of Catholic education, when there were proposals to move towards a unitary system for teacher training.
However, he was not to be seen as merely a Catholic apologist, for he had many friends and much respect across the world of education.
His work also involved the amalgamation of St Mary's and St Joseph's in 1985, when he became principal of the new joined college.
For his efforts he was made a Member of the Cathedral Chapter.
In 1987, he was appointed as Parish Priest of St Paul's on the Falls Road.
At that time, it was the largest parish in Down and Connor, and its people had suffered very seriously during the previous two decades of civil unrest.
He was made a Monsignor in 1988 and served as Vicar General of Down and Connor during this time.
On 13 February 1994, Dallat was ordained Titular Bishop of Thala, and Auxiliary of Down and Connor.
He took as his motto Mary's response to the Angel Gabriel's invitation, Fiat Voluntas Tua (Your Will be Done).
During this period, he retained his interest in education and was Chairman of the Council for Catholic Maintained Schools (CCMS).
He retired as Bishop in March 2000.
Dallat's great niece studied Religious Education at St. Mary's University College, and completed a semester of study at the KHL in Leuven, Belgium.
His nephew is also a priest, The Very Rev Fr Ciaran Dallat is the current Assistant Priest in St Peter's Cathedral, Belfast.
Dallat died unexpectedly on 25 September 2000 and was buried in Hannahstown Cemetery, within the view of the city where he had laboured for 45 years.
Indiana Bible College (IBC) is a Bible college endorsed by the United Pentecostal Church International (UPCI).
It was originally founded in 1981 by Rev.
Dennis Croucher of Seymour, Indiana, before relocating to Indianapolis in 1988 under the direction and sponsorship of Rev.
Paul D. Mooney and Calvary Tabernacle of Indianapolis, Indiana.
Its current campus is located at 1502 East Sumner Avenue – the site of the former University Heights Hospital, one half mile north of the University of Indianapolis in University Heights.
Established with a strong religious foundation, Indiana Bible College is known for its emphasis on preparing students for careers in professional ministry, Christian education, or counseling.
The college offers Associate of Arts and Bachelor of Arts programs in Biblical Studies and Music with academic minors in Religious Education, International Studies, Social Science, Theology, Communications and Media, and Music.
Indiana Bible College provides leadership across the United Pentecostal Church International, both in music and theology.
All degrees that are offered have not been accredited by any higher accreditation agencies.
However, IBC credits and degrees routinely transfer to Institutions of Higher Learning, and several students have successfully used IBC degrees to obtain accredited Masters degrees and Doctorates from around the country in various fields, though not in every case.
The accredited Seminary for the UPCI accepts degrees from IBC, because their accrediting agency considers IBC equivalent to an accredited Institution.
For the past several years, IBC has been the largest UPCI Bible College.
It currently offers on-site courses, night classes, a large External Studies program, and Spanish IBC, at the main Campus, for those speaking Spanish.
The Music Department has several groups that travel extensively ministering throughout the country.
IBC Praise is a premier group, ministering before crowds of upwards of 18,000 people.
IBC Chorale, Singers, Anthem, among others travel across North America.
Smaller MSA groups, sometimes numbering several per weekend, also minister in various places, with a preaching contingent also.
The International Studies Department has just expanded as of Fall 2015, and now boasts 2 long time Missionaries in Robert K. Rodenbush and William Turner as integral parts of the Dept.
Perspectives Magazine is the official magazine of IBC.
It has a readership of about 20,000 per issue, making it the largest circulated Apostolic periodical in North America.
The Staff at IBC has a strong blend of Ministerial Experience, along with Academic Credentials.
Jim Sleeva has been a Missionary, soul winner, Prison Chaplain, Youth Counselor, and Bible College Instructor for many years.
The Executive Vice President, Robert L. Rodenbush holds a Masters and Doctorate of Law from Washington University.
The Dean of Music, Lindel Anderson holds a PhD in Worship Studies.
Tim Massengale, and the Dean of Theology Bob Killmon have MDivs, and Jaye Rodenbush has a Masters in Higher Education.
Others are noted in their field, including Dave Brown and Tim Pedigo.
President Paul Mooney is a sought after International Speaker, writes an influential article for Perspectives monthly, has had a long running radio program, and is long time Pastor of Calvary Tabernacle, one of the largest Pentecostal Churches in North America.
Calvary's weekly Services are streamed around the world, with Pastor Mooney as the primary speaker.
Innovation, with a passion for Truth and Excellence, have long been hallmarks of IBC.
The Library consists of around 20,000 volumes.
A broad range of scholarly and practical periodicals are also accessible to students.
A rare book room contains many volumes for special areas of study and learning.
Eugene B. Borowitz (February 20, 1924 – January 22, 2016) was an American leader and philosopher in Reform Judaism, known largely for his work on Jewish theology and Jewish ethics.
He also edited a Jewish journal, Sh'ma, and taught at the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion.
He was awarded the Maurice N. Eisendrath Bearer of Light Award by the Union for Reform Judaism (2005), selected as a Scholar of Distinction for a retrospective on his work by the Jewish Publication Society (2002) and given the Jewish Cultural Achievement medal for scholarship by the National Foundation for Jewish Culture.
He received the National Jewish Book Award (1974) for The Mask Jews Wear.
As is apparent from a bibliography of his works, Borowitz was a prolific author.
During the Korean War, he served as a chaplain for the U.S. Navy.
Borowitz held degrees from Ohio State University, Columbia University and HUC-JIR.
Borowitz grew up in Columbus, Ohio, and attended Ohio State University.
After graduation, he went to Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati, where he was ordained as a Rabbi in 1948 and received his D.H.L.
in 1950.
Borowitz became the founding rabbi of the Community Synagogue in Port Washington, New York, while at the same time pursuing a PhD.
in religion from the joint program sponsored by Columbia University and Union Theological Seminary.
In 1957, he was appointed as director of the Religious Education Department of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations.
Because of this, he switched to Columbia's doctoral program in education and received the Ed.D.
in 1958.
From 1962 until his death, he was a faculty member at the New York campus of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, where he became the Sigmund L. Falk Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Education and Jewish Religious Thought.
He celebrated his hundredth semester with the college in 2012.
Borowitz is best known for his development of "covenant theology," a term he first introduced in a 1961 article in Commentary.
His work concerned itself with the dilemma of the postmodern Jew: committed to individual autonomy, but nevertheless involved with God, Torah and Israel.
His interest in redefining covenant led him to significant work in normative ethics, some of which was collected in his book Exploring Jewish Ethics (264), and his teaching on the subject led to the volume, Reform Jewish Ethics and the Halakhah (298).
Borowitz's work in covenant theology found its mature expression in his 1991 book, Renewing the Covenant (273).
One of Borowitz's most significant accomplishments was his founding of Sh'ma, a Journal of Jewish Responsibility in 1970.
He was its publisher and editor for twenty-three years, and he served as Senior Editor from 1993 to 1997.
Sh'ma provided a forum where voices from all segments of the Jewish community could be heard on a wide range of controversial topics.
Borowitz wrote numerous short book reviews for Sh'ma.
Borowitz died January 22, 2016 at the age of 91 at his home in Stamford, Connecticut.
Ancient Egyptian religion was a complex system of polytheistic beliefs and rituals which were an integral part of ancient Egyptian society.
It centered on the Egyptians' interaction with many deities who were believed to be present in, and in control of, the forces and elements of nature.
The practices of Egyptian religion were efforts to provide for the gods and gain their favor.
Formal religious practice centered on the pharaoh, the king of Egypt, who was believed to possess a divine power by virtue of his position.
He acted as the intermediary between his people and the gods and was obligated to sustain the gods through rituals and offerings so that they could maintain order in the universe.
The state dedicated enormous resources to Egyptian rituals and to the construction of the temples.
Individuals could interact with the gods for their own purposes, appealing for their help through prayer or compelling them to act through magic.
These practices were distinct from, but closely linked with, the formal rituals and institutions.
The popular religious tradition grew more prominent in the course of Egyptian history as the status of the Pharaoh declined.
Another important aspect was the belief in the afterlife and funerary practices.
The Egyptians made great efforts to ensure the survival of their souls after death, providing tombs, grave goods, and offerings to preserve the bodies and spirits of the deceased.
The religion had its roots in Egypt's prehistory and lasted for more than 3,000 years.
The details of religious belief changed over time as the importance of particular gods rose and declined, and their intricate relationships shifted.
At various times, certain gods became preeminent over the others, including the sun god Ra, the creator god Amun, and the mother goddess Isis.
For a brief period, in the aberrant theology promulgated by the Pharaoh Akhenaten, a single god, the Aten, replaced the traditional pantheon.
Ancient Egyptian religion and mythology left behind many writings and monuments, along with significant influences on ancient and modern cultures.
The beliefs and rituals now referred to as "Ancient Egyptian religion" were integral within every aspect of Egyptian culture.
Their language possessed no single term corresponding to the modern European concept of religion.
Ancient Egyptian religion was not a monolithic institution, but consisted of a vast and varying set of beliefs and practices, linked by their common focus on the interaction between the world of humans and the world of the divine.
The characteristics of the gods who populated the divine realm were inextricably linked to the Egyptians understanding of the properties of the world in which they lived.
The Egyptians believed that the phenomena of nature were divine forces in and of themselves.
These deified forces included the elements, animal characteristics, or abstract forces.
The Egyptians believed in a pantheon of gods, which were involved in all aspects of nature and human society.
Their religious practices were efforts to sustain and placate these phenomena and turn them to human advantage.
This polytheistic system was very complex, as some deities were believed to exist in many different manifestations, and some had multiple mythological roles.
Conversely, many natural forces, such as the sun, were associated with multiple deities.
The diverse pantheon ranged from gods with vital roles in the universe to minor deities or "demons" with very limited or localized functions.
It could include gods adopted from foreign cultures, and sometimes humans: deceased Pharaohs were believed to be divine, and occasionally, distinguished commoners such as Imhotep also became deified.
The depictions of the gods in art were not meant as literal representations of how the gods might appear if they were visible, as the gods' true natures were believed to be mysterious.
Instead, these depictions gave recognizable forms to the abstract deities by using symbolic imagery to indicate each god's role in nature.
Thus, for example, the funerary god Anubis was portrayed as a jackal, a creature whose scavenging habits threatened the preservation of the body, in an effort to counter this threat and employ it for protection.
His black skin was symbolic of the color of mummified flesh and the fertile black soil that Egyptians saw as a symbol of resurrection.
This iconography was not fixed, and many of the gods could be depicted in more than one form.
Many gods were associated with particular regions in Egypt where their cults were most important.
However, these associations changed over time, and they did not mean that the god associated with a place had originated there.
For instance, the god Monthu was the original patron of the city of Thebes.
Over the course of the Middle Kingdom, however, he was displaced in that role by Amun, who may have arisen elsewhere.
The national popularity and importance of individual gods fluctuated in a similar way.
The Egyptian gods had complex interrelationships, which partly reflected the interaction of the forces they represented.
The Egyptians often grouped gods together to reflect these relationships.
Some groups of deities were of indeterminate size, and were linked by their similar functions.
These often consisted of minor deities with little individual identity.
Other combinations linked independent deities based on the symbolic meaning of numbers in Egyptian mythology; for instance, pairs of deities usually represent the duality of opposite phenomena.
One of the more common combinations was a family triad consisting of a father, mother, and child, who were worshipped together.
Some groups had wide-ranging importance.
One such group, the Ennead, assembled nine deities into a theological system that was involved in the mythological areas of creation, kingship, and the afterlife.
The relationships between deities could also be expressed in the process of syncretism, in which two or more different gods were linked to form a composite deity.
This process was a recognition of the presence of one god "in" another when the second god took on a role belonging to the first.
These links between deities were fluid, and did not represent the permanent merging of two gods into one; therefore, some gods could develop multiple syncretic connections.
Sometimes syncretism combined deities with very similar characteristics.
At other times it joined gods with very different natures, as when Amun, the god of hidden power, was linked with Ra, the god of the sun.
The resulting god, Amun-Ra, thus united the power that lay behind all things with the greatest and most visible force in nature.
Many deities could be given epithets that seem to indicate that they were greater than any other god, suggesting some kind of unity beyond the multitude of natural forces.
In particular, this is true of a few gods who, at various times in history, rose to supreme importance in Egyptian religion.
These included the royal patron Horus, the sun god Ra, and the mother goddess Isis.
During the New Kingdom (c. 1550–1070 BC), Amun held this position.
The theology of the period described in particular detail Amun's presence in and rule over all things, so that he, more than any other deity, embodied the all-encompassing power of the divine.
Because of theological statements like this, many past Egyptologists, such as Siegfried Morenz, believed that beneath the polytheistic traditions of Egyptian religion there was an increasing belief in a unity of the divine, moving toward monotheism.
Instances in Egyptian literature where "god" is mentioned without reference to any specific deity would seem to give this view added weight.
However, in 1971 Erik Hornung pointed out that the traits of an apparently supreme being could be attributed to many different gods, even in periods when other gods were preeminent, and further argued that references to an unspecified "god" are meant to refer flexibly to any deity.
He therefore argued that, while some individuals may have henotheistically chosen one god to worship, Egyptian religion as a whole had no notion of a divine being beyond the immediate multitude of deities.
Yet the debate did not end there; Jan Assmann and James P. Allen have since asserted that the Egyptians did to some degree recognize a single divine force.
In Allen's view, the notion of an underlying unity of the divine coexisted inclusively with the polytheistic tradition.
It is possible that only the Egyptian theologians fully recognized this underlying unity, but it is also possible that ordinary Egyptians identified the single divine force with a single god in particular situations.
The Egyptians did have an aberrant period during the New Kingdom during which the pharaoh Akhenaten abolished the official worship of other gods in favor of the sun-disk Aten.
This is often seen as the first instance of true monotheism in history, although the details of Atenist theology are still unclear and the suggestion that it was monotheistic is disputed.
The exclusion of all but one god from worship was a radical departure from Egyptian tradition and some see Akhenaten as a practitioner of monolatry rather than monotheism, as he did not actively deny the existence of other gods; he simply refrained from worshipping any but the Aten.
Under Akhenaten's successors Egypt reverted to its traditional religion, and Akhenaten himself came to be reviled as a heretic.
The Egyptian conception of the universe centered on Ma'at, a word that encompasses several concepts in English, including "truth," "justice," and "order."
It was the fixed, eternal order of the universe, both in the cosmos and in human society.
It had existed since the creation of the world, and without it the world would lose its cohesion.
In Egyptian belief, Ma'at was constantly under threat from the forces of disorder, so all of society was required to maintain it.
On the human level this meant that all members of society should cooperate and coexist; on the cosmic level it meant that all of the forces of nature—the gods—should continue to function in balance.
This latter goal was central to Egyptian religion.
The Egyptians sought to maintain Ma'at in the cosmos by sustaining the gods through offerings and by performing rituals which staved off disorder and perpetuated the cycles of nature.
The most important part of the Egyptian view of the cosmos was the conception of time, which was greatly concerned with the maintenance of Ma'at.
Throughout the linear passage of time, a cyclical pattern recurred, in which Ma'at was renewed by periodic events which echoed the original creation.
Among these events were the annual Nile flood and the succession from one king to another, but the most important was the daily journey of the sun god Ra.
When envisioning the shape of the cosmos, the Egyptians saw the earth as a flat expanse of land, personified by the god Geb, over which arched the sky goddess Nut.
The two were separated by Shu, the god of air.
Beneath the earth lay a parallel underworld and undersky, and beyond the skies lay the infinite expanse of Nu, the chaos that had existed before creation.
The Egyptians also believed in a place called the Duat, a mysterious region associated with death and rebirth, that may have lain in the underworld or in the sky.
Each day, Ra traveled over the earth across the underside of the sky, and at night he passed through the Duat to be reborn at dawn.
In Egyptian belief, this cosmos was inhabited by three types of sentient beings.
One was the gods; another was the spirits of deceased humans, who existed in the divine realm and possessed many of the gods' abilities.
Living humans were the third category, and the most important among them was the pharaoh, who bridged the human and divine realms.
Egyptologists have long debated the degree to which the Pharaoh was considered a god.
It seems most likely that the Egyptians viewed royal authority itself as a divine force.
Therefore, although the Egyptians recognized that the Pharaoh was human and subject to human weakness, they simultaneously viewed him as a god, because the divine power of kingship was incarnated in him.
He therefore acted as intermediary between Egypt's people and the gods.
He was key to upholding Ma'at, both by maintaining justice and harmony in human society and by sustaining the gods with temples and offerings.
For these reasons, he oversaw all state religious activity.
However, the Pharaoh’s real-life influence and prestige could differ from that depicted in official writings and depictions, and beginning in the late New Kingdom his religious importance declined drastically.
The king was also associated with many specific deities.
He was identified directly with Horus, who represented kingship itself, and he was seen as the son of Ra, who ruled and regulated nature as the Pharaoh ruled and regulated society.
By the New Kingdom he was also associated with Amun, the supreme force in the cosmos.
Upon his death, the king became fully deified.
In this state, he was directly identified with Ra, and was also associated with Osiris, god of death and rebirth and the mythological father of Horus.
Many mortuary temples were dedicated to the worship of deceased pharaohs as gods.
The Egyptians had elaborate beliefs about death and the afterlife.
They believed that humans possessed a ka, or life-force, which left the body at the point of death.
In life, the ka received its sustenance from food and drink, so it was believed that, to endure after death, the ka must continue to receive offerings of food, whose spiritual essence it could still consume.
Each person also had a ba, the set of spiritual characteristics unique to each individual.
Unlike the ka, the ba remained attached to the body after death.
Egyptian funeral rituals were intended to release the ba from the body so that it could move freely, and to rejoin it with the ka so that it could live on as an akh.
However, it was also important that the body of the deceased be preserved, as the Egyptians believed that the ba returned to its body each night to receive new life, before emerging in the morning as an akh.
Originally, however, the Egyptians believed that only the pharaoh had a ba, and only he could become one with the gods; dead commoners passed into a dark, bleak realm that represented the opposite of life.
The nobles received tombs and the resources for their upkeep as gifts from the king, and their ability to enter the afterlife was believed to be dependent on these royal favors.
In early times the deceased pharaoh was believed to ascend to the sky and dwell among the stars.
Over the course of the Old Kingdom (c. 2686–2181 BC), however, he came to be more closely associated with the daily rebirth of the sun god Ra and with the underworld ruler Osiris as those deities grew more important.
During the late Old Kingdom and the First Intermediate Period (c. 2181–2055 BC), the Egyptians gradually came to believe that possession of a ba and the possibility of a paradisiacal afterlife extended to everyone.
In the fully developed afterlife beliefs of the New Kingdom, the soul had to avoid a variety of supernatural dangers in the Duat, before undergoing a final judgment known as the "Weighing of the Heart".
In this judgment, the gods compared the actions of the deceased while alive (symbolized by the heart) to Ma'at, to determine whether he or she had behaved in accordance with Ma'at.
If the deceased was judged worthy, his or her ka and ba were united into an akh.
Several beliefs coexisted about the akh's destination.
Often the dead were said to dwell in the realm of Osiris, a lush and pleasant land in the underworld.
The solar vision of the afterlife, in which the deceased soul traveled with Ra on his daily journey, was still primarily associated with royalty, but could extend to other people as well.
Over the course of the Middle and New Kingdoms, the notion that the akh could also travel in the world of the living, and to some degree magically affect events there, became increasingly prevalent.
While the Egyptians had no unified religious scripture, they produced many religious writings of various types.
Together the disparate texts provide a very extensive, but still incomplete, understanding of Egyptian religious practices and beliefs.
Egyptian myths were metaphorical stories intended to illustrate and explain the gods' actions and roles in nature.
The details of the events they recounted could change to convey different symbolic perspectives on the mysterious divine events they described, so many myths exist in different and conflicting versions.
Mythical narratives were rarely written in full, and more often texts only contain episodes from or allusions to a larger myth.
Knowledge of Egyptian mythology, therefore, is derived mostly from hymns that detail the roles of specific deities, from ritual and magical texts which describe actions related to mythic events, and from funerary texts which mention the roles of many deities in the afterlife.
Some information is also provided by allusions in secular texts.
Finally, Greeks and Romans such as Plutarch recorded some of the extant myths late in Egyptian history.
Among the significant Egyptian myths were the creation myths.
According to these stories, the world emerged as a dry space in the primordial ocean of chaos.
Because the sun is essential to life on earth, the first rising of Ra marked the moment of this emergence.
Different forms of the myth describe the process of creation in various ways: a transformation of the primordial god Atum into the elements that form the world, as the creative speech of the intellectual god Ptah, and as an act of the hidden power of Amun.
Regardless of these variations, the act of creation represented the initial establishment of maat and the pattern for the subsequent cycles of time.
The most important of all Egyptian myths was the myth of Osiris and Isis.
It tells of the divine ruler Osiris, who was murdered by his jealous brother Set, a god often associated with chaos.
Osiris' sister and wife Isis resurrected him so that he could conceive an heir, Horus.
Osiris then entered the underworld and became the ruler of the dead.
Once grown, Horus fought and defeated Set to become king himself.
Set's association with chaos, and the identification of Osiris and Horus as the rightful rulers, provided a rationale for Pharaonic succession and portrayed the Pharaohs as the upholders of order.
At the same time, Osiris' death and rebirth were related to the Egyptian agricultural cycle, in which crops grew in the wake of the Nile inundation, and provided a template for the resurrection of human souls after death.
Another important mythic motif was the journey of Ra through the Duat each night.
In the course of this journey, Ra met with Osiris, who again acted as an agent of regeneration, so that his life was renewed.
He also fought each night with Apep, a serpentine god representing chaos.
The defeat of Apep and the meeting with Osiris ensured the rising of the sun the next morning, an event that represented rebirth and the victory of order over chaos.
The procedures for religious rituals were frequently written on papyri, which were used as instructions for those performing the ritual.
These ritual texts were kept mainly in the temple libraries.
Temples themselves are also inscribed with such texts, often accompanied by illustrations.
Unlike the ritual papyri, these inscriptions were not intended as instructions, but were meant to symbolically perpetuate the rituals even if, in reality, people ceased to perform them.
Magical texts likewise describe rituals, although these rituals were part of the spells used for specific goals in everyday life.
Despite their mundane purpose, many of these texts also originated in temple libraries and later became disseminated among the general populace.
The Egyptians produced numerous prayers and hymns, written in the form of poetry.
Hymns and prayers follow a similar structure and are distinguished mainly by the purposes they serve.
Hymns were written to praise particular deities.
Like ritual texts, they were written on papyri and on temple walls, and they were probably recited as part of the rituals they accompany in temple inscriptions.
Most are structured according to a set literary formula, designed to expound on the nature, aspects, and mythological functions of a given deity.
They tend to speak more explicitly about fundamental theology than other Egyptian religious writings, and became particularly important in the New Kingdom, a period of particularly active theological discourse.
Prayers follow the same general pattern as hymns, but address the relevant god in a more personal way, asking for blessings, help, or forgiveness for wrongdoing.
Such prayers are rare before the New Kingdom, indicating that in earlier periods such direct personal interaction with a deity was not believed possible, or at least was less likely to be expressed in writing.
They are known mainly from inscriptions on statues and stelae left in sacred sites as votive offerings.
Among the most significant and extensively preserved Egyptian writings are funerary texts designed to ensure that deceased souls reached a pleasant afterlife.
The earliest of these are the Pyramid Texts.
They are a loose collection of hundreds of spells inscribed on the walls of royal pyramids during the Old Kingdom, intended to magically provide the king with the means to join the company of the gods in the afterlife.
The spells appear in differing arrangements and combinations, and few of them appear in all of the pyramids.
At the end of the Old Kingdom a new body of funerary spells, which included material from the Pyramid Texts, began appearing in tombs, inscribed primarily on coffins.
This collection of writings is known as the Coffin Texts, and was not reserved for royalty, but appeared in the tombs of non-royal officials.
In the New Kingdom, several new funerary texts emerged, of which the best-known is the Book of the Dead.
Unlike the earlier books, it often contains extensive illustrations, or vignettes.
The book was copied on papyrus and sold to commoners to be placed in their tombs.
The Coffin Texts included sections with detailed descriptions of the underworld and instructions on how to overcome its hazards.
In the New Kingdom, this material gave rise to several "books of the netherworld", including the Book of Gates, the Book of Caverns, and the Amduat.
Unlike the loose collections of spells, these netherworld books are structured depictions of Ra's passage through the Duat, and by analogy, the journey of the deceased person's soul through the realm of the dead.
They were originally restricted to pharaonic tombs, but in the Third Intermediate Period they came to be used more widely.
Temples existed from the beginning of Egyptian history, and at the height of the civilization they were present in most of its towns.
They included both mortuary temples to serve the spirits of deceased pharaohs and temples dedicated to patron gods, although the distinction was blurred because divinity and kingship were so closely intertwined.
The temples were not primarily intended as places for worship by the general populace, and the common people had a complex set of religious practices of their own.
Instead, the state-run temples served as houses for the gods, in which physical images which served as their intermediaries were cared for and provided with offerings.
This service was believed to be necessary to sustain the gods, so that they could in turn maintain the universe itself.
Thus, temples were central to Egyptian society, and vast resources were devoted to their upkeep, including both donations from the monarchy and large estates of their own.
Pharaohs often expanded them as part of their obligation to honor the gods, so that many temples grew to enormous size.
However, not all gods had temples dedicated to them, as many gods who were important in official theology received only minimal worship, and many household gods were the focus of popular veneration rather than temple ritual.
The earliest Egyptian temples were small, impermanent structures, but through the Old and Middle Kingdoms their designs grew more elaborate, and they were increasingly built out of stone.
In the New Kingdom, a basic temple layout emerged, which had evolved from common elements in Old and Middle Kingdom temples.
With variations, this plan was used for most of the temples built from then on, and most of those that survive today adhere to it.
In this standard plan, the temple was built along a central processional way that led through a series of courts and halls to the sanctuary, which held a statue of the temple's god.
Access to this most sacred part of the temple was restricted to the pharaoh and the highest-ranking priests.
The journey from the temple entrance to the sanctuary was seen as a journey from the human world to the divine realm, a point emphasized by the complex mythological symbolism present in temple architecture.
Well beyond the temple building proper was the outermost wall.
In the space between the two lay many subsidiary buildings, including workshops and storage areas to supply the temple's needs, and the library where the temple's sacred writings and mundane records were kept, and which also served as a center of learning on a multitude of subjects.
Theoretically it was the duty of the pharaoh to carry out temple rituals, as he was Egypt's official representative to the gods.
In reality, ritual duties were almost always carried out by priests.
During the Old and Middle Kingdoms, there was no separate class of priests; instead, many government officials served in this capacity for several months out of the year before returning to their secular duties.
Only in the New Kingdom did professional priesthood become widespread, although most lower-ranking priests were still part-time.
All were still employed by the state, and the pharaoh had final say in their appointments.
However, as the wealth of the temples grew, the influence of their priesthoods increased, until it rivaled that of the pharaoh.
In the political fragmentation of the Third Intermediate Period (c. 1070–664 BC), the high priests of Amun at Karnak even became the effective rulers of Upper Egypt.
The temple staff also included many people other than priests, such as musicians and chanters in temple ceremonies.
Outside the temple were artisans and other laborers who helped supply the temple's needs, as well as farmers who worked on temple estates.
All were paid with portions of the temple's income.
Large temples were therefore very important centers of economic activity, sometimes employing thousands of people.
State religious practice included both temple rituals involved in the cult of a deity, and ceremonies related to divine kingship.
Among the latter were coronation ceremonies and the sed festival, a ritual renewal of the pharaoh's strength that took place periodically during his reign.
There were numerous temple rituals, including rites that took place across the country and rites limited to single temples or to the temples of a single god.
Some were performed daily, while others took place annually or on rarer occasions.
The most common temple ritual was the morning offering ceremony, performed daily in temples across Egypt.
In it, a high-ranking priest, or occasionally the pharaoh, washed, anointed, and elaborately dressed the god's statue before presenting it with offerings.
Afterward, when the god had consumed the spiritual essence of the offerings, the items themselves were taken to be distributed among the priests.
The less frequent temple rituals, or festivals, were still numerous, with dozens occurring every year.
These festivals often entailed actions beyond simple offerings to the gods, such as reenactments of particular myths or the symbolic destruction of the forces of disorder.
Most of these events were probably celebrated only by the priests and took place only inside the temple.
However, the most important temple festivals, like the Opet Festival celebrated at Karnak, usually involved a procession carrying the god's image out of the sanctuary in a model barque to visit other significant sites, such as the temple of a related deity.
Commoners gathered to watch the procession and sometimes received portions of the unusually large offerings given to the gods on these occasions.
At many sacred sites, the Egyptians worshipped individual animals which they believed to be manifestations of particular deities.
These animals were selected based on specific sacred markings which were believed to indicate their fitness for the role.
Some of these cult animals retained their positions for the rest of their lives, as with the Apis bull worshipped in Memphis as a manifestation of Ptah.
Other animals were selected for much shorter periods.
These cults grew more popular in later times, and many temples began raising stocks of such animals from which to choose a new divine manifestation.
A separate practice developed in the Twenty-sixth Dynasty, when people began mummifying any member of a particular animal species as an offering to the god whom the species represented.
Millions of mummified cats, birds, and other creatures were buried at temples honoring Egyptian deities.
Worshippers paid the priests of a particular deity to obtain and mummify an animal associated with that deity, and the mummy was placed in a cemetery near the god's cult center.
The Egyptians used oracles to ask the gods for knowledge or guidance.
Egyptian oracles are known mainly from the New Kingdom and afterward, though they probably appeared much earlier.
People of all classes, including the king, asked questions of oracles, and, especially in the late New Kingdom their answers could be used to settle legal disputes or inform royal decisions.
The most common means of consulting an oracle was to pose a question to the divine image while it was being carried in a festival procession, and interpret an answer from the barque's movements.
Other methods included interpreting the behavior of cult animals, drawing lots, or consulting statues through which a priest apparently spoke.
The means of discerning the god's will gave great influence to the priests who spoke and interpreted the god's message.
While the state cults were meant to preserve the stability of the Egyptian world, lay individuals had their own religious practices that related more directly to daily life.
This popular religion left less evidence than the official cults, and because this evidence was mostly produced by the wealthiest portion of the Egyptian population, it is uncertain to what degree it reflects the practices of the populace as a whole.
Popular religious practice included ceremonies marking important transitions in life.
These included birth, because of the danger involved in the process, and naming, because the name was held to be a crucial part of a person's identity.
The most important of these ceremonies were those surrounding death (see "Funerary practices" below), because they ensured the soul's survival beyond it.
Other religious practices sought to discern the gods' will or seek their knowledge.
These included the interpretation of dreams, which could be seen as messages from the divine realm, and the consultation of oracles.
People also sought to affect the gods' behavior to their own benefit through magical rituals (see "Magic" below).
Individual Egyptians also prayed to gods and gave them private offerings.
Evidence of this type of personal piety is sparse before the New Kingdom.
This is probably due to cultural restrictions on depiction of nonroyal religious activity, which relaxed during the Middle and New Kingdoms.
Personal piety became still more prominent in the late New Kingdom, when it was believed that the gods intervened directly in individual lives, punishing wrongdoers and saving the pious from disaster.
Official temples were important venues for private prayer and offering, even though their central activities were closed to laypeople.
Egyptians frequently donated goods to be offered to the temple deity and objects inscribed with prayers to be placed in temple courts.
Often they prayed in person before temple statues or in shrines set aside for their use.
Yet in addition to temples, the populace also used separate local chapels, smaller but more accessible than the formal temples.
These chapels were very numerous, and probably staffed by members of the community.
Households, too, often had their own small shrines for offering to gods or deceased relatives.
The deities invoked in these situations differed somewhat from those at the center of state cults.
Many of the important popular deities, such as the fertility goddess Taweret and the household protector Bes, had no temples of their own.
However, many other gods, including Amun and Osiris, were very important in both popular and official religion.
Some individuals might be particularly devoted to a single god.
Often they favored deities affiliated with their own region, or with their role in life.
The god Ptah, for instance, was particularly important in his cult center of Memphis, but as the patron of craftsmen he received the nationwide veneration of many in that occupation.
The word "magic" is used to translate the Egyptian term heka, which meant, as James P. Allen puts it, "the ability to make things happen by indirect means".
Heka was believed to be a natural phenomenon, the force which was used to create the universe and which the gods employed to work their will.
Humans could also use it, however, and magical practices were closely intertwined with religion.
In fact, even the regular rituals performed in temples were counted as magic.
Individuals also frequently employed magical techniques for personal purposes.
Although these ends could be harmful to other people, no form of magic was considered inimical in itself.
Instead, magic was seen primarily as a way for humans to prevent or overcome negative events.
Magic was closely associated with the priesthood.
Because temple libraries contained numerous magical texts, great magical knowledge was ascribed to the lector priests who studied these texts.
These priests often worked outside their temples, hiring out their magical services to laymen.
Other professions also commonly employed magic as part of their work, including doctors, scorpion-charmers, and makers of magical amulets.
It is also likely that the peasantry used simple magic for their own purposes, but because this magical knowledge would have been passed down orally, there is limited evidence of it.
Language was closely linked with heka, to such a degree that Thoth, the god of writing, was sometimes said to be the inventor of heka.
Therefore, magic frequently involved written or spoken incantations, although these were usually accompanied by ritual actions.
Often these rituals invoked the power of an appropriate deity to perform the desired action, using the power of heka to compel it to act.
Sometimes this entailed casting the practitioner or subject of a ritual in the role of a character in mythology, thus inducing the god to act toward that person as it had in the myth.
Rituals also employed sympathetic magic, using objects believed to have a magically significant resemblance to the subject of the rite.
The Egyptians also commonly used objects believed to be imbued with heka of their own, such as the magically protective amulets worn in great numbers by ordinary Egyptians.
Because it was considered necessary for the survival of the soul, preservation of the body was a central part of Egyptian funerary practices.
Originally the Egyptians buried their dead in the desert, where the arid conditions mummified the body naturally.
In the Early Dynastic Period, however, they began using tombs for greater protection, and the body was insulated from the desiccating effect of the sand and was subject to natural decay.
Thus the Egyptians developed their elaborate embalming practices, in which the corpse was artificially desiccated and wrapped to be placed in its coffin.
The quality of the process varied according to cost, however, and those who could not afford it were still buried in desert graves.
Once the mummification process was complete, the mummy was carried from the deceased person's house to the tomb in a funeral procession that included his or her friends and relatives, along with a variety of priests.
Before the burial, these priests performed several rituals, including the Opening of the mouth ceremony intended to restore the dead person's senses and give him or her the ability to receive offerings.
Then the mummy was buried and the tomb sealed.
Afterward, relatives or hired priests gave food offerings to the deceased in a nearby mortuary chapel at regular intervals.
Over time, families inevitably neglected offerings to long-dead relatives, so most mortuary cults only lasted one or two generations.
However, while the cult lasted, the living sometimes wrote letters asking deceased relatives for help, in the belief that the dead could affect the world of the living as the gods did.
The first Egyptian tombs were mastabas, rectangular brick structures where kings and nobles were entombed.
Each of them contained a subterranean burial chamber and a separate, aboveground chapel for mortuary rituals.
In the Old Kingdom the mastaba developed into the pyramid, which symbolized the primeval mound of Egyptian myth.
Pyramids were reserved for royalty, and were accompanied by large mortuary temples sitting at their base.
Middle Kingdom pharaohs continued to build pyramids, but the popularity of mastabas waned.
Increasingly, commoners with sufficient means were buried in rock-cut tombs with separate mortuary chapels nearby, an approach which was less vulnerable to tomb robbery.
By the beginning of the New Kingdom even the pharaohs were buried in such tombs, and they continued to be used until the decline of the religion itself.
Tombs could contain a great variety of other items, including statues of the deceased to serve as substitutes for the body in case it was damaged.
Because it was believed that the deceased would have to do work in the afterlife, just as in life, burials often included small models of humans to do work in place of the deceased.
The tombs of wealthier individuals could also contain furniture, clothing, and other everyday objects intended for use in the afterlife, along with amulets and other items intended to provide magical protection against the hazards of the spirit world.
Further protection was provided by funerary texts included in the burial.
The tomb walls also bore artwork, including images of the deceased eating food which were believed to allow him or her to magically receive sustenance even after the mortuary offerings had ceased.
The beginnings of Egyptian religion extend into prehistory, and evidence for them comes only from the sparse and ambiguous archaeological record.
Careful burials during the Predynastic period imply that the people of this time believed in some form of an afterlife.
At the same time, animals were ritually buried, a practice which may reflect the development of zoomorphic deities like those found in the later religion.
The evidence is less clear for gods in human form, and this type of deity may have emerged more slowly than those in animal shape.
Each region of Egypt originally had its own patron deity, but it is likely that as these small communities conquered or absorbed each other, the god of the defeated area was either incorporated into the other god's mythology or entirely subsumed by it.
This resulted in a complex pantheon in which some deities remained only locally important while others developed more universal significance.
As the time changed and the shifting of the empires changed like the middle kingdom, new kingdom, and old kingdom, usually the religion followed stayed within the border of that territory.
The Early Dynastic period began with the unification of Egypt around 3000&nbsp;BC.
This event transformed Egyptian religion, as some deities rose to national importance and the cult of the divine pharaoh became the central focus of religious activity.
Horus was identified with the king, and his cult center in the Upper Egyptian city of Nekhen was among the most important religious sites of the period.
Another important center was Abydos, where the early rulers built large funerary complexes.
During the Old Kingdom, the priesthoods of the major deities attempted to organize the complicated national pantheon into groups linked by their mythology and worshipped in a single cult center, such as the Ennead of Heliopolis which linked important deities such as Atum, Ra, Osiris, and Set in a single creation myth.
Meanwhile, pyramids, accompanied by large mortuary temple complexes, replaced mastabas as the tombs of pharaohs.
In contrast with the great size of the pyramid complexes, temples to gods remained comparatively small, suggesting that official religion in this period emphasized the cult of the divine king more than the direct worship of deities.
The funerary rituals and architecture of this time greatly influenced the more elaborate temples and rituals used in worshipping the gods in later periods.
Early in the Old Kingdom, Ra grew in influence, and his cult center at Heliopolis became the nation's most important religious site.
By the Fifth Dynasty, Ra was the most prominent god in Egypt, and had developed the close links with kingship and the afterlife that he retained for the rest of Egyptian history.
Around the same time, Osiris became an important afterlife deity.
The Pyramid Texts, first written at this time, reflect the prominence of the solar and Osirian concepts of the afterlife, although they also contain remnants of much older traditions.
The texts are an extremely important source for understanding early Egyptian theology.
In the 22nd century BC, the Old Kingdom collapsed into the disorder of the First Intermediate Period, with important consequences for Egyptian religion.
Old Kingdom officials had already begun to adopt the funerary rites originally reserved for royalty, but now, less rigid barriers between social classes meant that these practices and the accompanying beliefs gradually extended to all Egyptians, a process called the "democratization of the afterlife".
The Osirian view of the afterlife had the greatest appeal to commoners, and thus Osiris became one of the most important gods.
Eventually rulers from Thebes reunified the Egyptian nation in the Middle Kingdom (c. 2055–1650 BC).
These Theban pharaohs initially promoted their patron god Monthu to national importance, but during the Middle Kingdom, he was eclipsed by the rising popularity of Amun.
In this new Egyptian state, personal piety grew more important and was expressed more freely in writing, a trend which continued in the New Kingdom.
The Middle Kingdom crumbled in the Second Intermediate Period (c. 1650–1550 BC), but the country was again reunited by Theban rulers, who became the first pharaohs of the New Kingdom.
Under the new regime, Amun became the supreme state god.
He was syncretized with Ra, the long-established patron of kingship, and his temple at Karnak in Thebes became Egypt's most important religious center.
Amun's elevation was partly due to the great importance of Thebes, but it was also due to the increasingly professional priesthood.
Their sophisticated theological discussion produced detailed descriptions of Amun's universal power.
Increased contact with outside peoples in this period led to the adoption of many Near Eastern deities into the pantheon.
At the same time, the subjugated Nubians absorbed Egyptian religious beliefs, and in particular, adopted Amun as their own.
The New Kingdom religious order was disrupted when Akhenaten acceded, and replaced Amun with the Aten as the state god.
Eventually he eliminated the official worship of most other gods, and moved Egypt's capital to a new city at Amarna.
This part of Egyptian history, the Amarna period, is named after this.
In doing so, Akhenaten claimed unprecedented status: only he could worship the Aten, and the populace directed their worship toward him.
The Atenist system lacked well-developed mythology and afterlife beliefs, and the Aten seemed distant and impersonal, so the new order did not appeal to ordinary Egyptians.
Thus, many probably continued to worship the traditional gods in private.
Nevertheless, the withdrawal of state support for the other deities severely disrupted Egyptian society.
Akhenaten's successors restored the traditional religious system, and eventually they dismantled all Atenist monuments.
Before the Amarna period, popular religion had trended toward more personal relationships between worshippers and their gods.
Akhenaten's changes had reversed this trend, but once the traditional religion was restored, there was a backlash.
The populace began to believe that the gods were much more directly involved in daily life.
Amun, the supreme god, was increasingly seen as the final arbiter of human destiny, the true ruler of Egypt.
The pharaoh was correspondingly more human and less divine.
The importance of oracles as a means of decision-making grew, as did the wealth and influence of the oracles' interpreters, the priesthood.
These trends undermined the traditional structure of society and contributed to the breakdown of the New Kingdom.
In the 1st millennium BC, Egypt was significantly weaker than in earlier times, and in several periods foreigners seized the country and assumed the position of pharaoh.
The importance of the pharaoh continued to decline, and the emphasis on popular piety continued to increase.
Animal cults, a characteristically Egyptian form of worship, became increasingly popular in this period, possibly as a response to the uncertainty and foreign influence of the time.
Isis grew more popular as a goddess of protection, magic, and personal salvation, and became the most important goddess in Egypt.
In the 4th century BC, Egypt became a Hellenistic kingdom under the Ptolemaic dynasty (305–30 BC), which assumed the pharaonic role, maintaining the traditional religion and building or rebuilding many temples.
The kingdom's Greek ruling class identified the Egyptian deities with their own.
From this cross-cultural syncretism emerged Serapis, a god who combined Osiris and Apis with characteristics of Greek deities, and who became very popular among the Greek population.
Nevertheless, for the most part the two belief systems remained separate, and the Egyptian deities remained Egyptian.
Ptolemaic-era beliefs changed little after Egypt became a province of the Roman Empire in 30 BC, with the Ptolemaic kings replaced by distant emperors.
The cult of Isis appealed even to Greeks and Romans outside Egypt, and in Hellenized form it spread across the empire.
In Egypt itself, as the empire weakened, official temples fell into decay, and without their centralizing influence religious practice became fragmented and localized.
Meanwhile, Christianity spread across Egypt, and in the third and fourth centuries AD, edicts by Christian emperors and iconoclasm by local Christians eroded traditional beliefs.
While it persisted among the populace for some time, Egyptian religion slowly faded away.
Egyptian religion produced the temples and tombs which are ancient Egypt's most enduring monuments, but it also influenced other cultures.
In pharaonic times many of its symbols, such as the sphinx and winged solar disk, were adopted by other cultures across the Mediterranean and Near East, as were some of its deities, such as Bes.
Some of these connections are difficult to trace.
The Greek concept of Elysium may have derived from the Egyptian vision of the afterlife.
In late antiquity, the Christian conception of Hell was most likely influenced by some of the imagery of the Duat.
Biblical accounts of Jesus and Mary may have been influenced by that of Isis and Orisis.
Egyptian beliefs also influenced or gave rise to several esoteric belief systems developed by Greeks and Romans, who considered Egypt as a source of mystic wisdom.
Hermeticism, for instance, derived from the tradition of secret magical knowledge associated with Thoth.
Traces of ancient beliefs remained in Egyptian folk traditions into modern times, but its influence on modern societies greatly increased with the French Campaign in Egypt and Syria in 1798 and their seeing the monuments and images.
As a result of it, Westerners began to study Egyptian beliefs firsthand, and Egyptian religious motifs were adopted into Western art.
Egyptian religion has since had a significant influence in popular culture.
Due to continued interest in Egyptian belief, in the late 20th century, several new religious groups have formed based on different reconstructions of ancient Egyptian religion.
Ian Thomas Ramsey (31 January 1915&nbsp;– 6 October 1972) was Professor of the Philosophy of Religion at the University of Oxford, and Bishop of Durham from 1966 until his death in 1972.
He wrote extensively on the problem of religious language, Christian ethics, the relationship between science and religion, and Christian apologetics.
As a result, he became convinced that a permanent centre was needed for enquiry into these inter-disciplinary areas; and in 1985 the Ian Ramsey Centre for Science and Religion at the University of Oxford was set up to promote discussion on the problems raised for theology and ethics by developments in science, technology and medicine.
Ramsey was born in Kearsley, near Bolton, Lancashire, an area noted for small industries and factories.
He was the sole child born to Arthur and Mary Ramsey, and was raised by them in the Christian faith.
He attended primary school at St. John's Church in Farnworth, Bolton, and then proceeded on a scholarship to Farnworth Grammar School where he studied Latin, mathematics, physics and chemistry.
He won a scholarship that enabled him to study at Cambridge University in the 1930s and graduated with an M.A.
in 1940.
At Cambridge he was influenced by Charles Raven the Regius Professor of Divinity and A. C. Ewing.
Raven spurred Ramsey's interests in the relationship between science and religion, while Ewing guided him into studying metaphysics.
After graduating from Cambridge, Ramsey then enrolled as candidate for ordination in the Church of England at Ripon Hall, near Oxford, and began his theological studies there.
During his studies he served as an assistant curate at Headington Quarry and it was there that he met his wife Margretta McKay (called Margaret; whom he married in 1943).
In 1943, upon completing his theological degree and ordination Ramsey then took on the role of Chaplain at Christ's College, Cambridge.
He was elected as a Fellow and Director of Studies in theology and moral science in 1944.
It was also in 1944 that he was appointed as university lecturer in divinity and Canon Theologian at Leicester Cathedral.
He held the role of Canon until 1966 when he was elected the Bishop of Durham.
Alongside of his role as a chaplain, Ramsey became widely known at Cambridge in the 1940s for his lectures in philosophical theology.
In 1951 he accepted the chair of Nolloth Professor of the Philosophy of the Christian Religion at Oxford University.
His inaugural lecture was delivered on 7 December 1951 and published as Miracles: An Exercise in Logical Map Work.
He served as a Fellow of Oriel College at Oxford and as chairman of the faculty of theology.
During his tenure at Oxford Ramsey was invited to deliver various guest lecture series including the Forwood Lectures at the University of Liverpool (1957), annual theological lecture at Queen's University, Belfast (1960), the Frederick Denison Maurice Lectures at King's College, London University (1961–62), Whidden Lecturer at McMaster University in Canada (1963), Riddell Memorial Lecture at the University of Newcastle upon Tyne (1963), and the Zenos Lectures at McCormick Theological Seminary, Chicago (1966).
Most of these lecture series were subsequently published as books: Freedom and Immortality, Religion and Science, On Being Sure in Religion, Models and Mystery, and Christian Discourse.
Ramsey was an authority on the Christian apologetics work of both Joseph Butler, and of John Locke.
He wrote a study of Butler's life and apologetic arguments that was published in 1969.
Ramsey also wrote a critical introduction to an abridged edition of Locke's The Reasonableness of Christianity that was released in 1958.
Both Locke's and Butler's texts were critical apologetic works that addressed the religious skepticism held to by various Deist thinkers in the late seventeenth century and eighteenth century.
As well as his duties as a college administrator and lecturer, Ramsey was also very active as a churchman.
He served as the examining chaplain to the bishops of Portsmouth, Sheffield and Norwich, and acted as the director of the Lambeth Diploma in Theology designed for non-clergy students interested in theology.
He also served on various Church of England commissions inquiring into ethical questions about birth control, suicide, and on the subject of divine healing.
He wrote reports dealing with those topics for the church's Board for Social Responsibility.
On 15 December 1966 he was installed at the ninetieth Bishop of Durham — his enthronement was commented on as unusual since the cathedral doors were open to welcome him.
He became chairman of the BBC's Central Religious Advisory Committee (CRAC) in 1970.
At Easter in 1972 he had a heart attack and died on 6 October 1972 after having a meeting at Broadcasting House, London with CRAC.
Ramsey approached a number of philosophical problems concerning twentieth century theology.
One of the significant topics concerned "God-talk" or the soundness of theological language.
Much of this had been prompted by the philosophical writings of Ludwig Wittgenstein and also by philosophers such as Alfred Ayer who were involved in the mid-twentieth century movement known as Logical Positivism.
The implications of Ayer's argument in Language, Truth and Logic (1936) were that religious or theological language was deemed to be analytically unscientific.
Religious statements were considered to be technically meaningless as it was argued that claims such as "God exists" were observationally unverifiable.
Ramsey was concerned in his writings to argue that traditional theological language was empirically meaningful.
He was equipped to make this argument because his thinking closely paralleled that of Wittgenstein.
For Ramsey, theological language is grounded in “permanent mystery.” He distinguishes this “permanent mystery” from the kind of mystery that can solved by facts and information.
Permanent mystery cannot be eradicated.
It is not “mystery” used as “a synonym for ignorance.” In his emphasis on mystery, Ramsey drew on Ludwig Wittgenstein.
For example, Ramsey distinguished between the “thatness” and the “whatness” of an event.
This distinction parallels Wittgenstein’s proposition, “not how the world is, is the mystical [mystery], but that it is.” The mystery of what happens can be solved by sufficient information, but, for Ramsey, the mystery that its happens is permanent.
Given his position that theology is grounded in permanent mystery, Ramsey holds that language about God (theo-logy) should never be viewed as “a super-science” that explains phenomena.
Rather than treating language about God as explanatory, Ramsey characterizes talk about God (theology) as “an attempt to be articulate about the divine mystery.” In his Religious Language, Ramsey differentiates two kinds of language.
He denotes one kind variously as “observational language,” “ordinary language,” “straightforward language,” or “straightforward public language.” To simplify, this first kind of language can be called “ordinary language.” Ramsey calls the other kind of language “religious language,” the language of theology.
He cautions that religious language will be “logically odd” because “God” is “a word outside ordinary language.” Thus, even though religious language is “grammatically simple,” its “logical structure” is neither plain nor straightforward.
The challenge for religious language, in Ramsey’s estimation, is how to make “ordinary language” into a “suitable currency” for the “religious language” of theology without its being misread as straightforward language.
Ramsey tried to prevent misreading “religious language” as “ordinary language” by pointing up the logically odd “qualifiers” to the ordinary language of “disclosure models” (a.k.a.
“analogue models”) by which religious language speaks of God.
One of Ramsey’s examples is the disclosure model “First Cause.” When “God” is predicated by active verbs, if the language were “ordinary language,” the word “God” would refer to a causal agent.
But, for Ramsey, the disclosure model “First Cause” does not mean that God is a causal agent.
Rather, if one traces the empirical whatness of a “causal chain,” the permanent mystery that such causation exists might dawn on a person, or in an image Ramsey used, “the penny drops.” Disclosure models are grounded on the empirical what, in this example, causation.
This is the “empirical fit” Ramsey emphasised.
At the same time, disclosure models “point to mystery,” in this example, the mystery that causation exists.
Thus, for Ramsey the religious language of theology names the permanent mystery “God” and by a disclosure model speaks of God as “First Cause.” The qualifiers “First” and the capitalizations signify religious language.
Ramsey’s understanding of theological language has been applied to the biblical story of Hannah in 1 Samuel 1:2-5, 19.
The disclosure situation was that “Hannah had no children” because of unstated empirical causes, but the permanent mystery that the causes happened was named “the Lord” and was modelled with an “empirical fit” as having “closed Hannah’s womb.” When Hannah became pregnant, the mystery that it happened was again named “the Lord.” This time the Lord was modelled with an “empirical fit” as having “remembered Hannah” (I Samuel 1:19) to fit the new disclosure situation.
Ramsey reconciled such conflicting disclosure models by tracing them back to the what of the disclosure situations.
Ramsey's arguments were developed on a model of religious language grounded in personal experience and personal disclosure.
As humans communicate with each other personal disclosure occurs.
Ramsey used this point to argue that humans come to encounter God also by way of personal disclosure, thus offering an argument from analogy.
Ramsey's theological work thus re-emphasized the traditional theological view that all religious language is analogical, and the religious words that humans create are always involving the language of analogy.
He was particularly effective in communicating with experts from a wide range of disciplines, inspiring them to work together on the problems raised for theology and ethics by developments in science, technology and medicine.
As a result of his experience he became convinced that a permanent centre was needed for enquiry into these interdisciplinary areas, and it was in response to this that the Ramsey Centre for the study of religious beliefs in relation to the sciences and medicine was set up in 1985 in the University of Oxford.
Bishop Ian Ramsey Primary School in Consett, County Durham, Ian Ramsey Church of England Comprehensive School in Fairfield, Stockton-on-Tees and Bishop Ramsey Church of England Secondary School in Ruislip in the London Borough of Hillingdon are also named after him.
Roman mythology is the body of traditional stories pertaining to ancient Rome's legendary origins and religious system, as represented in the literature and visual arts of the Romans.
"Roman mythology" may also refer to the modern study of these representations, and to the subject matter as represented in the literature and art of other cultures in any period.
The Romans usually treated their traditional narratives as historical, even when these have miraculous or supernatural elements.
The stories are often concerned with politics and morality, and how an individual's personal integrity relates to his or her responsibility to the community or Roman state.
Heroism is an important theme.
When the stories illuminate Roman religious practices, they are more concerned with ritual, augury, and institutions than with theology or cosmogony.
The study of Roman religion and myth is complicated by the early influence of Greek religion on the Italian peninsula during Rome's protohistory, and by the later artistic imitation of Greek literary models by Roman authors.
In matters of theology, the Romans were curiously eager to identify their own gods with those of the Greeks (interpretatio graeca), and to reinterpret stories about Greek deities under the names of their Roman counterparts.
Rome's early myths and legends also have a dynamic relationship with Etruscan religion, less documented than that of the Greeks.
While Roman mythology may lack a body of divine narratives as extensive as that found in Greek literature, Romulus and Remus suckling the she-wolf is as famous as any image from Greek mythology except for the Trojan Horse.
Because Latin literature was more widely known in Europe throughout the Middle Ages and into the Renaissance, the interpretations of Greek myths by the Romans often had the greater influence on narrative and pictorial representations of "classical mythology" than Greek sources.
In particular, the versions of Greek myths in Ovid's Metamorphoses, written during the reign of Augustus, came to be regarded as canonical.
Because ritual played the central role in Roman religion that myth did for the Greeks, it is sometimes doubted that the Romans had much of a native mythology.
This perception is a product of Romanticism and the classical scholarship of the 19th century, which valued Greek civilization as more "authentically creative."
From the Renaissance to the 18th century, however, Roman myths were an inspiration particularly for European painting.
The Roman tradition is rich in historical myths, or legends, concerning the foundation and rise of the city.
These narratives focus on human actors, with only occasional intervention from deities but a pervasive sense of divinely ordered destiny.
In Rome's earliest period, history and myth have a mutual and complementary relationship.
<blockquote> The Roman stories still matter, as they mattered to Dante in 1300 and Shakespeare in 1600 and the founding fathers of the United States in 1776.
What does it take to be a free citizen?
Can a superpower still be a republic?
How does well-meaning authority turn into murderous tyranny?
Major sources for Roman myth include the Aeneid of Vergil and the first few books of Livy's history as well as Dionysius' s Roman Antiquities.
Other important sources are the Fasti of Ovid, a six-book poem structured by the Roman religious calendar, and the fourth book of elegies by Propertius.
Scenes from Roman myth also appear in Roman wall painting, coins, and sculpture, particularly reliefs.
The Aeneid and Livy's early history are the best extant sources for Rome's founding myths.
Material from Greek heroic legend was grafted onto this native stock at an early date.
The Trojan prince Aeneas was cast as husband of Lavinia, daughter of King Latinus, patronymical ancestor of the Latini, and therefore through a convoluted revisionist genealogy as forebear of Romulus and Remus.
By extension, the Trojans were adopted as the mythical ancestors of the Roman people.
The characteristic myths of Rome are often political or moral, that is, they deal with the development of Roman government in accordance with divine law, as expressed by Roman religion, and with demonstrations of the individual's adherence to moral expectations (mos maiorum) or failures to do so.
Divine narrative played a more important role in the system of Greek religious belief than among the Romans, for whom ritual and cult were primary.
Although Roman religion was not based on scriptures and exegesis, priestly literature was one of the earliest written forms of Latin prose.
The books (libri) and commentaries (commentarii) of the College of Pontiffs and of the augurs contained religious procedures, prayers, and rulings and opinions on points of religious law.
Although at least some of this archived material was available for consultation by the Roman senate, it was often occultum genus litterarum, an arcane form of literature to which by definition only priests had access.
Prophecies pertaining to world history and Rome's destiny turn up fortuitously at critical junctures in history, discovered suddenly in the nebulous Sibylline books, which according to legend were purchased by Tarquin the Proud in the late 6th century BC from the Cumaean Sibyl.
Some aspects of archaic Roman religion were preserved by the lost theological works of the 1st-century BC scholar Varro, known through other classical and Christian authors.
At the head of the earliest pantheon were the so-called Archaic Triad of Jupiter, Mars, and Quirinus, whose flamens were of the highest order, and Janus and Vesta.
According to tradition, the founder of Roman religion was Numa Pompilius, the Sabine second king of Rome, who was believed to have had as his consort and adviser a Roman goddess or nymph of fountains and prophecy, Egeria.
The Etruscan-influenced Capitoline Triad of Jupiter, Juno and Minerva later became central to official religion, replacing the Archaic Triad — an unusual example within Indo-European religion of a supreme triad formed of two female deities and only one male.
The cult of Diana was established on the Aventine Hill, but the most famous Roman manifestation of this goddess may be Diana Nemorensis, owing to the attention paid to her cult by J.G.
Frazer in the mythographical classic The Golden Bough.
The gods represented distinctly the practical needs of daily life, and they were scrupulously accorded the rites and offerings considered proper.
Early Roman divinities included a host of "specialist gods" whose names were invoked in the carrying out of various specific activities.
Fragments of old ritual accompanying such acts as plowing or sowing reveal that at every stage of the operation a separate deity was invoked, the name of each deity being regularly derived from the verb for the operation.
Tutelary deities were particularly important in ancient Rome.
Thus, Janus and Vesta guarded the door and hearth, the Lares protected the field and house, Pales the pasture, Saturn the sowing, Ceres the growth of the grain, Pomona the fruit, and Consus and Ops the harvest.
Even the majestic Jupiter, the ruler of the gods, was honored for the aid his rains might give to the farms and vineyards.
In his more encompassing character he was considered, through his weapon of lightning, the director of human activity and, by his widespread domain, the protector of the Romans in their military activities beyond the borders of their own community.
Prominent in early times were the gods Mars and Quirinus, who were often identified with each other.
Mars was a god of war; he was honored in March and October.
Quirinus is thought by modern scholars to have been the patron of the armed community in time of peace.
The 19th-century scholar Georg Wissowa thought that the Romans distinguished two classes of gods, the di indigetes and the di novensides or novensiles: the indigetes were the original gods of the Roman state, their names and nature indicated by the titles of the earliest priests and by the fixed festivals of the calendar, with 30 such gods honored by special festivals; the novensides were later divinities whose cults were introduced to the city in the historical period, usually at a known date and in response to a specific crisis or felt need.
Arnaldo Momigliano and others, however, have argued that this distinction cannot be maintained.
During the war with Hannibal, any distinction between "indigenous" and "immigrant" gods begins to fade, and the Romans embraced diverse gods from various cultures as a sign of strength and universal divine favor.
The absorption of neighboring local gods took place as the Roman state conquered the surrounding territory.
The Romans commonly granted the local gods of the conquered territory the same honors as the earlier gods of the Roman state religion.
In addition to Castor and Pollux, the conquered settlements in Italy seem to have contributed to the Roman pantheon Diana, Minerva, Hercules, Venus, and deities of lesser rank, some of whom were Italic divinities, others originally derived from the Greek culture of Magna Graecia.
In 203 BC, the cult object embodying Cybele was brought from Pessinus in Phrygia and welcomed with due ceremony to Rome, centuries before the territory was annexed formally.
Both Lucretius and Catullus, poets contemporary in the mid-1st century BC, offer disapproving glimpses of her wildly ecstatic cult.
In some instances, deities of an enemy power were formally invited through the ritual of evocatio to take up their abode in new sanctuaries at Rome.
Communities of foreigners (peregrini) and former slaves (libertini) continued their own religious practices within the city.
In this way Mithras came to Rome and his popularity within the Roman army spread his cult as far afield as Roman Britain.
The important Roman deities were eventually identified with the more anthropomorphic Greek gods and goddesses, and assumed many of their attributes and myths.
Islam in Liberia is practiced by an estimated 12.2% of the population.
</ref> The vast majority of Liberian Muslims are Malikite Sunni, with sizeable Shia and Ahmadiyya minorities.
The primary Muslim ethnic groups are the Vai and Mandingo but also Gbandi, Kpelle and other ethnic groups.
Historically, Liberian Muslims have followed a relaxed and liberal form of Islam that is heavily influenced by indigenous religions that were integrated into Islam when it came to Liberia in the 16th century with the collapse of the Songhai Empire in Mali.
Islamic religious practices vary in cities and towns across the country.
Younger Liberian Muslims, particularly in the cities along the coast, tend to be more secular but still practice Islam in everyday life.
In rural areas, Liberian Muslims are more conservative in dressing modestly, performing prayers and attending religious studies.
The practice of Islam in Liberia has been compared to Sufi Islam common in Senegal and Gambia.
The major Islamic holidays, Eid el Fitr, Ramadan and Eid al Adha, called Tabaski Day, are celebrated annually in Liberia.
People have begun to go on Hajj to Mecca in recent years.
Joint English-Arabic language, Quranic, and Muslim universities and Islamic studies schools have opened and been rebuilt in the capital Monrovia, rural towns and other cities.
Islam appears to be experiencing revival alongside Christianity in the country as a result of the Liberian Civil War.
America-Liberian Methodists, the first Christians in Liberia, arrived on January 7, 1822.
President Charles Taylor promulgated Islam for political reasons.
Taylor, an ally of Libyan leader Muammar al-Gaddafi, trained in Libya before returning to Liberia.
Taylor's government sent 220 Muslims to Mecca to do Hajj in 2001 and gave the Liberia Muslim's council a prominent building in Monrovia and the designation of two hours of national broadcasting weekly for Islam-related programming.
A consequence of the civil war in Liberia was destruction of religious buildings, schools and places of worship across the country.
In both urban and rural areas, government and opposition rebel forces destroyed numerous mosques belonging to Liberian Muslims from what the government considered enemy ethnic groups.
Several massacres were also committed near mosques and schools.
One of the most well known, barbaric and gruesome was the Bakerdu Massacre in the mainly Mandingo/Muslim Quardu Gboni District Lofa County on July 12, 1990.
Over 400 civilians were killed (some by being burned alive) by Charles Taylor's National Patriotic Front of Liberia (NPFL).
Destroyed buildings still stand on uneven foundations, raddled with bullet holes, demolished walls or simply blasted to skeletal buildings.
Such destruction not only led to many faithful followers fleeing their hometowns, cities and villages for refugee camps in Sierra Leone, Ghana and other neighboring countries but also destroyed Islamic architecture that represented the blend between traditional Liberian, West African and Arab architectural design and influences.
In recent years, diaspora Liberians abroad who practice Islam and Liberians in Liberia have participated in joint projects to rebuild and finance the reconstruction of mosques in many towns in the countryside.
Countries such as Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, etc.
have created Diplomatic relations with Liberia.
Islamic organizations provide help to Liberian Muslims wanting to go on Hajj to Mecca.
Laurence K. Bropleh, Liberia's Information Minister and a reverend, attended as a guest speaker.
Minister Bropleh called on the nation's legislature to designate non-Christian holidays as national holidays, specifically Hajj.
He also suggested establishing a religious advisory board, representing all of the major religions practiced in Liberia, to advise the President.
Methodist leaders condemned Bropleh's comments and accused him of fueling inter-religious tension.
Nancy Tatom Ammerman (born 1950) is an American professor of sociology of religion at Boston University School of Theology.
In 1984, Ammerman joined the faculty of Emory University.
Her book, Baptist Battles, won the 1992 Distinguished Book Award from the Society for the Scientific Study of Religion.
In 1995, Ammerman left Emory University to teach at Hartford Seminary.
Since 2003, she has been at Boston University.
She was one of a panel of academics commissioned in 1993 by the U.S. government to analyze what went wrong in its dealings with the Branch Davidians at Waco.
Ammerman's report concludes that neither the ATF nor the FBI took David Koresh seriously as a religious man, but rather adopted the "anti-cult" point of view of deprogrammer Rick Ross.
<blockquote> [...] the most up lifting finding was the FBI's near total dismissal of the religious beliefs of the Branch Davidians.
For these men, David Koresh was a sociopath, and his followers were hostages.
Religion was a convenient cover for Koresh's desire to control his followers and monopolize all the rewards for himself.
They saw no reason to try to understand his religious beliefs, indeed thought them so bizarre as to be incomprehensible by normal people.2 The negotiators expressed deep regret at this state of affairs, but could see no alternatives to the way they had come to understand the situation.
The tactical commanders had no real regret, seeing the final outcome as unavoidable.
Ammerman disputes the view that Koresh's followers were "hostages", noting that some of them left their Mount Carmel Center between the initial ATF raid and the last day of the standoff.
She also criticizes the Justice Department for ignoring the recommendations of FBI agents, who suggested taking Koresh's religious faith as (at least possibly) sincere and backing off instead of applying ever-increasing pressure.
<blockquote> The efforts by Arnold and James Tabor represented probably the best hope for a peaceful end to the siege.
By working within Koresh's biblical system, they had suggested to him an alternative reading of critical passages in the book (Revelation).
By this reading, Koresh should have written or recorded his explanation of the seven seals.
The prophesied destruction of the true believers would not have taken place, in this reading, for a long time.
The Davidians would have been free to leave their settlement and deal with the government to resolve their differences.
Koresh evidently took this teaching and began his interpretive writing.
In his last letter, written the week before the fiery end, he stated that he intended to come out when it was complete.
The FBI, however, did not take this scenario seriously or believe that Koresh would actually write the document.
She testified during the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee Hearings of July/August 1995.
She was asked by then U.S.
Senator Russel D. Feingold of Wisconsin regards the reported "allegations of violence and instances of child abuse" that were levied against the Branch Davidians.
She noted that these allegations are a common response on the part of society in response to groups with unfamiliar beliefs.
"The pattern of allegations is a very familiar one...The way people described what was going on inside convents sounds an awful lot like what we hear people describing going on inside the Branch Davidians.
Or what people thought as was referred to earlier about what was going on with the Mormons in their early history.
I think it's very important for us both to take those allegations seriously in the sense of actually investigating them but also to realize that there is this predictable pattern once a group has decided that they want to live very differently and see the rest of us as wrong, that we're also likely to respond with a variety of kinds of fears and expectations and exaggerations."
For much of the last decade, Ammerman's work has focused on American congregations.
Her most recent book, Pillars of Faith: American Congregations and their Partners (University of California Press, 2005), describes the common patterns that shape the work of American's diverse communities of faith.
Her 1997 book, Congregation and Community, tells the stories of twenty-three congregations that encountered various forms of neighborhood change in communities around the country.
Along with a team of others, she edited and contributed to Studying Congregations: A New Handbook.
Portions reprinted in Religion North American Style, ed.
by Thomas E. Dowdy (Rutgers University Press, 1996); and The Practical Skeptic: Readings in Sociology, by Lisa J. McIntyre (Mayfield, 2001).
Alfred Eriksen (nicknamed "Karlsøypresten", 30 August 1864 &ndash; 4 May 1934) was a Norwegian priest, politician, newspaper editor and non-fiction writer.
He was born as Alfred Riedhl in Christiania as the son of watchmaker Henrik Erichsen (1825–1870) and Emilie Kathrine Christoffersen (1825–1902).
He was married to vicar's daughter Sigrid Marie Wexelsen (1866–1960) from August 1890.
Eriksen finished his secondary education at Kristiania Cathedral School in 1883.
He then studied theology, graduating with the cand.theol.
degree in theology in 1888.
After working one year as a teacher in Ålesund he was appointer vicar in Karlsøy in 1891, and held this position until 1910, when he became vicar in Vålerengen Church.
While being a priest he wrote his doctoral thesis, titled Vilje.
He was founder and first editor of the newspaper Nordlys from 1902, and edited Nordlys until 1911.
In 1913 he founded the publication Dagens Liv, and edited it, but it soon became defunct.
He published a popular book on the history of religion, Religionsbilleder og kulturskildringer, in 1901, and a book on jurisprudence for ordinary people, Lovbok for folket, in 1903.
He also became involved in politics, was elected mayor of Karlsøy for the Liberal Party in 1898, and re-elected in 1901 and 1904.
He was a failed candidate for the 1900 general election; although his party swept the vote in Karlsøy, this was not enough to win the constituency Tromsø Amt.
In 1903 he was elected to the Parliament of Norway, representing the Norwegian Labour Party.
This was the first time members of the organized labour movement were represented in Parliament.
The Labour Party went from 0 to 4 seats after the 1903 election, all representatives of Northern Norway.
In addition to Lind Johansen, they were Meyer Foshaug, John Lind Johansen and Jørg Berge; also, Adam Egede-Nissen was elected on the Liberal Party ballot.
He was re-elected to Parliament in 1906 and in 1909 for the constituency Tromsøsundet.
He became known as one of the greatest speakers at the Parliament during this period, and his nickname "Karlsøypresten" became a well-known concept among the general public.
He was awarded the Medal for Outstanding Civic Service for his role as mediator in the 1911 lockout.
Eriksen did not want to subordinate himself to the party discipline, and was eventually expelled from the Labour Party in 1912.
Contributing to his downfall was his actions in the position as chairman of the society Riksmålsforbundet from 1911 to 1912.
From then he was not politically active, but wrote numerous newspaper articles on cultural topics.
Public holidays in Pakistan are celebrated according to Islamic or Gregorian calendars for religious and civil purposes, respectively.
Religious festivals like Eid are celebrated according to the Islamic calendar whereas other national holidays like international labour day, Pakistan day, and Quaid-i-Azam Day are celebrated according to the Gregorian calendar.
In addition to the holidays now no longer national holidays, several commemorations are observed as national days without a holiday:
In Buddhism, portable shrines were made so that devout travelers with nowhere to worship could carry their shrines with them.
The shrines were two-piece, and could be shut together to preserve the artwork.
Miniature Buddhas and Goddesses could be carried in small lacquer cases, much resembling the portable phone cases of today, carried on the wrist.
In Tibet, the shrines were sometimes made of metal, and carried with over-the-shoulder straps.
The mikoshi is a Japanese type of portable shrine used mostly during Shinto religious festivals called matsuri.
The All Nations Centre is a large multi-purpose modern building located in the Gabalfa district of North Cardiff in Wales.
It is often a venue for international religious festivals and musical performances.
It is regularly rented out by Kiros Ventures Ltd and All Nations Church meet there on Sunday mornings where there is a Christian church service.
The All Nations Centre is the principal site for the Open University examinations in Wales, which may last over several months in the summer.
It also hosts Cardiff University examinations.
Salazarese (locally Zaraitzuko uskara) is the Basque dialect of the Salazar Valley of Navarre, Spain.
In English it is also known as Zaraitzu Basque, the Zaraitzu dialect or Salazar dialect; in Spanish as Salacenco and in Basque as Zaraitzuko euskara.
Basque in the Salazar valley was spoken until the first half of the 20th century; ever since, the number of speakers started a marked decline.
At the time of the 2002 linguistic census, there were only two native speakers left, both with ages over 85, and within a few years Salazarese was extinct.
However, its features had been documented over the 19th and 20th centuries.
From the 1980s there has been a revival of the Basque language in Spain.
As a result, roughly a quarter of the valley's inhabitants now speak Standard Basque.
It would be possible to revive the Salazarese dialect to some degree by teaching the historical dialectal features of Salazarese to Batua speakers.
Some religious texts were written: the Christian doctrines of Itzalle and Orontze and texts published by Satrustegi.
Apart from more religious texts, there is significant research work of Louis-Lucien Bonaparte.Bonaparte, L. L. (1872).
Etudes sur les trois dialectes basques del vallees d’Aezcoa, de Salazar et de Roncal, tels qu’ils sont parles a Aribe, a Jaurrieta et a Vidangoz, Louis-Lucien Bonaparte.< Pedro Jose Sanper translated the Gospel of Matthew.
and Jose Urrutia the “Orreaga” ballad of Arturo Campion.
Aitor Arana has collected the testimonies of Basque-speakers of Zaraitzu, published a dictionary of the dialect in 2001, and next year a book of grammar.
In 2004 he published a collection of texts and he gave some curses of the local Basque in the Valley.
The work of the researcher Inaki Camino should be mentioned as well.
The Cave is a multimedia opera in three acts by Steve Reich to an English libretto by his wife Beryl Korot.
It was first performed in 1993 in Vienna by the Steve Reich Ensemble, conducted by Paul Hillier.
The title "The Cave" refers to The Cave of the Patriarchs in Hebron, where Abraham and Sarah (and several other major religious figures) are buried.
The Cave of the Patriarchs is of unusual interest in that it is a sacred place where Muslims, Jews and Christians pray.
The music and a major part of the libretto in the opera is derived directly from, and includes spoken responses from, Israeli, Palestinian and American interviewees who were asked questions about the story of Abraham.
The sound track also includes readings from the religious texts that detail the story of Abraham, and a recording of the ambient sound that is found in the ancient building that surrounds the sacred site.
The main narrative thread that runs through the opera is the story of the life of Abraham, as it is told in the various religious texts, and how this story is now understood and interpreted, using modern-day accounts by individual people from three different major religious and cultural contexts.
During the individual interviews, Steve Reich and Beryl Korot asked questions such as "Who is Abraham?
", and recorded answers that were given by Israeli, Palestinian and American interviewees.
These three groups of people viewed the story of Abraham/Ibrahim and his immediate family in varying ways.
Brief spoken extracts from the interviews were used both as they were, and also as repeated musical phrases based on the words spoken.
The melodic phrases used in the opera are all taken directly from the intonations of the natural spoken words (the prosody) which can be heard in the phrases and sentences spoken by the individuals who were interviewed.
Images of the interviewees are also used on an array of video screens.
Sesenebnef was an Ancient Egyptian chief lector priest of the Thirteenth Dynasty, around 1750 BC.
He is mainly known from his tomb at el-Lisht which was excavated around 1900.
The tomb was found looted but still contained the remains of two wooden coffins, one placed inside the other.
The remains of the coffins were found in a poor state of preservation.
Therefore the inscriptions on the coffin were copied and the coffins were left on the site.
These texts belong to the longest religious texts of the late Middle Kingdom of Ancient Egypt.
Many spells on the coffins are only known from the Book of the Dead which dates several hundred years later.
Shankar Vaman Dandekar (Devanagari: शंकर वामन, उपाख्य सोनोपंत, दांडेकर; 1896-1969) was a philosopher and educationist from Maharashtra, India.
He was commonly known as Sonopant Dandekar and as Mamasaheb (सोनोपन्त / सोनुमामा / सोनूमामा / मामासाहेब दाण्डेकर).
He was an important interpreter of Warkari Bhakti Sampraday in Maharashtra.
His funeral was marked on a grad scale by the Warkari movement.
He served as a professor of philosophy and the principal of Sir Parshurambhau College in Pune for many years.
He edited and published several Hindu religious texts in Sanskrit and Marathi languages.
Amenhotep was an Ancient Egyptian treasurer and royal sealer of the Thirteenth Dynasty (around 1750 BC).
The treasurer was one of the most important officials at the royal court.
He is mainly known from his burial found next to the White Pyramid of king Amenemhat II at Dahshur.
His burial chamber was placed next to the burial chamber of queen Keminub and still contained the fragments of his inscribed wooden coffin, decorated with religious texts, so far not yet securely identified.
He is also known from several scarab seals.
The style of the seals but also of the burial equipment suggest that he dates from the Thirteenth Dynasty and not under Amenemhat III as hitherto believed.
Religious symbolism provides an additional means to communicate the underlying message of a religion via symbols, apart from communication by words.
Jesus in Mathew 13:13 says, "The reason I use parables in talking to them is that they look, but do not see, and they listen, but do not hear or understand."
Symbolism, like parables, clarifies a message to make its meaning more accessible to the mind.
It is the use of symbols, including archetypes, acts, artwork, events, or natural phenomena, by a religion.
Religions view religious texts, rituals, and works of art as symbols of compelling ideas or ideals.
Symbols help create a resonant mythos expressing the moral values of the society or the teachings of the religion.
Ranchal is a Punjabi surname in the Khatri clan of Punjab (India).
Khatri is the Punjabi adaptation of Sanskrit word Kshatriya, a warrior tribe from the northern Indian subcontinent.
As administrators and rulers, Kshatriya were assigned with protecting dharma, and serving humanity and the world.
Over time, as a result of economic and political exigencies, they also expanded into other occupations.
The Ranchal community traces its origins to the King Nandchal who ruled the regions near Dera Baba Nanak at Ravi River in district Gurdaspur of Majha regions of the Punjab (India).
These regions are historically connected with the composition of the Vedas, the Mahabharata, Ramayana and Puranas as well as more modern religious texts such as the Guru Granth Sahib.
A Jewish seminary is a Jewish educational institution.
A yeshiva is an institution for boys or young men focused on the study of religious texts, especially Torah study and the Talmud.
These include mesivta for high school-aged boys and beit midrash or yeshiva gedola for men of college age.
A midrasha is an institute of Jewish studies for women, roughly equivalent to yeshiva.
In Israel a midrasha that also offers academic degrees is sometimes called a machon.
In the United States, midrasha may also be co-educational.
A kolel is an institute for advanced study of Talmudic or rabbinic literature.
Students of a kolel are married men.
Bais Yaakov is a type of elementary and secondary school for Jewish girls from religious, especially Orthodox families.
JQuranTree is a set of Java APIs for accessing and analyzing the Quran, in its authentic Arabic form.
The Java library is released as an open source project.
The Uthmani distribution of the Tanzil project is used (http://tanzil.info) and is left unmodified.
The library includes a user guide and API documentation, with examples on using the library to perform basic analysis of Quranic text.
Behenu was an Ancient Egyptian queen of the Sixth dynasty.
She is thought to have been the wife of either Pepi I or of Pepi II.
The remnants of her pyramid were first discovered in 2007, and news of the discovery of her burial chamber was made public in March 2010.
The complex was discovered in the vicinity of the pyramid of the Pepi II, and it is thought that she was "most probably" the wife of this pharaoh, but no inscription has been uncovered that would positively link her to him.
A set of Pyramid texts was uncovered along with the burial chamber.
This is only the second known instance of these ancient religious texts being used in association with a Queen instead of the pharaoh.
Bhaduri is a common Indian surname specifically for Bengali Hindu.
The home state of the Bhaduri family is West Bengal.
The meaning of Bhaduri come may come from a trade, such as the name "Fisher" which was given to fishermen.
A lot of these trade-based last names might be a profession in some other language.
This is why it is useful to research the country of origin of a name, and the languages used by its family members.
Many western names like Bhaduri come from religious texts such as the Bhagavadgītā, the Quran, the Bible, and so on.
Often these family names relate to a religious sentiment such as Favored of God.
The Brahma Purana ( , ) is one of the major eighteen Mahapuranas, a genre of Hindu religious texts.
The extant text comprises 246 chapters.
It is divided into two parts: the Purvabhaga (former part) and the Uttarabhaga (later part).
The first part narrates the story behind the creation of the cosmos, details the life and deeds of Rama and Krishna.
Chapters 70–175 deal with Gautami Mahatmya (Glorification of the Godavari River).
The second part contains the details about the Purushottama Tirtha, which is one of the holy places.
The Padma Purana categorizes Brahma Purana as a Rajas Purana (Purana which represents dimness and passion).
It is the first of the eighteen Puranas in all the lists, except that of the Padma Purana.
Federal List of Extremist Materials ( ) is a list of works that were banned in Russia, primarily based on the Russian Internet Restriction Bill.
It is compiled by the Ministry of Justice of the Russian Federation since July 14, 2007, and contained 1,058 items .
Producing, storing or distributing the materials on the list is an offense in Russia.
The list includes Internet publications and websites that criticize Russian authorities, such as news website grani.ru or an open letter by Voice of Beslan, some religious texts by Muslim theologians, Jehovah's Witnesses publications, racist texts and books such as Mein Kampf and Zaveshchanie russkogo fashista, movies such as The Eternal Jew, songs, slogans ("Russia for Russians!
", , video files, brochures and websites
Wilfrid Emmett Doyle (February 18, 1913&mdash;September 14, 2003) was a Canadian prelate of the Roman Catholic Church.
He served as Bishop of Nelson from 1958 to 1989.
Wilfrid Doyle was born Calgary, Alberta, as one of twelve children; his ancestors had immigrated to Canada from County Wexford in Ireland.
He attended Sacred Heart School and St. Joseph's High School in Edmonton, and the University of Alberta, from where he obtained his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1935.
He also studied theology at St. Joseph's Seminary in Edmonton.
Doyle was ordained to the priesthood by Archbishop John MacDonald on June 5, 1938, and continued his studies at St. Paul's University Seminary in Ottawa, earning his doctorate in canon law in 1949.
He later became chancellor of the Archdiocese of Edmonton.
On November 9, 1958, Doyle was appointed the third Bishop of Nelson, British Columbia, by Pope John XXIII.
Doyle received his episcopal consecration on the following December 3 from Archbishop Giovanni Panico, with Archbishop Michael O'Neill and Bishop Francis Allen serving as co-consecrators.
A leading figure in Canadian catechetics, he taught the Come to the Father catechetical series and was named head of the Canadian Bishops' Office for Religious Education when the series was expanded; he later stated, "My spiritual life began when I started teaching the Come to the Father series".
Doyle also served as national director of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine (1962-1986), President of the then Office for Religious Education (1966-1970), director of the National Office of Religious Education (1966-1967), and Chairman of the Episcopal Commission for Religious Education (1966-1969).
He attended the Second Vatican Council from 1962 to 1965.
In 1976, he appointed Sr. Katherine Meagher as the chancellor of his diocese, making her the first woman to hold that post in Canada.
Doyle was Bishop during a string of sexual abuse scandals in the diocese that started before he took office (as early as 1947) and lasted until at least 1992, three years after he retired.
At least seven priests were charged with sexual abuse of minors during his tenure in office including: <BLOCKQUOTE>"At the hearing, the appellant felt that he was the only victim of this ordeal and failed to take any responsibility for any of his criminal convictions.
The panel is profoundly astounded and dismayed by the appellant's insistence that he is not guilty of any of his convictions which indicates that there has been little or no rehabilitation.
With little if any genuine remorse and no acceptance of responsibility for his offences, the panel finds that the appellant does pose a risk of re-offending.
"< In 2004, the Supreme Court of Canada held that a bishop/diocese could be held vicariously liable for the sexual misdeeds of priests in the case of John Doe v. Bennett.
Until that time, the Church had argued that a priest was not an "employee" of a diocese and therefore the bishop was not his employer and not vicariously liable.
The court said that there the five elements necessary to establish vicarious liability exist in a sexual abuse situation involving a priest: The relationship between the diocesan enterprise and the priest is sufficiently close.
There is a connection between the employer-created or enhanced risk and the wrong complained of.
The bishop provides the priest with the opportunity to abuse his power.
The priest's wrongful acts are strongly related to the psychological intimacy inherent in his role as priest.
The bishop confers an enormous degree of power on the priest relative to his victims.
He later retired as Bishop on November 6, 1989, after nearly thirty-one years of service.
Doyle then did work in the Diocese of Kamloops before moving in 2001 to St. Elizabeth Seton House of Prayer in Kelowna, which he had established during his tenure as Bishop and where he and others were later forced to evacuate when forest fires threatened to consume the residence.
Doyle died in his sleep in Kelowna, at age 90.
He is buried in Nelson.
The Accord Coalition is a British campaign coalition, launched in 2008, which brings together a wide range of member organisations, both religious and non-religious, who wish to ensure that matters of religion and philosophical conviction in education do not cause problems, such as for society, by undermining community cohesion and the growth of mutual understanding; for children and young people by denying them a broad and balanced education preparing them for adult life in an increasingly diverse society, or for pupils, staff and families more generally, by not properly respecting their rights and autonomy.
Accord maintains a databank of information, which brings together and summarises research about the current policy implications of state funded faith schools and their practices.
It also runs an annual award to celebrate those schools that do most to promote mutual understanding and improve community cohesion.
Accord is particularly concerned at the current ability of most state funded faith schools to discriminate against staff, job applicants and children on the grounds of religion, to only provide pupils with instructional Religious Education (RE), and by the wider effects of these freedoms.
Accord does not take a position on the principle of having schools with a religious or philosophical ethos, but instead wants all state funded schools to be made open and suitable for all children of every background, regardless of their parents’ or their own beliefs, and for schools to be as diverse as the local area from which they draw their pupils.
Accord believes mutual understanding will best grow through a shared civic life, and considers mutual understanding as vital to the future wellbeing and happiness of society.
Accord is concerned that rather than acting to foster improved cohesiveness, through legislative freedoms, some schools can help to create environments where mistrust between groups can more readily grow, such as by helping to segregate children and staff on the grounds of religion and through providing a narrow curriculum about the beliefs of others.
Accord has four key campaign objectives: • To prevent discrimination on the basis of religion and belief in pupil admissions and in recruitment and employment of staff in schools • To ensure that schools follow an objective and balanced syllabus for education about religious and non-religious beliefs to ensure that children grow up with an understanding of the main religion and belief traditions in society • To replace the widely flouted laws that demand all state schools provide daily Collective Worship, with requirements to provide inclusive assemblies that focus on shared values • That RE, Personal, Social, Health and Economic (PSHE) education and Citizenship are brought under a single inspection regime to help ensure they their provision is thorough, broad and balanced Accord was founded by organisations including the Association of Teachers and Lecturers, the British Humanist Association, Ekklesia, the Hindu Academy and the Lesbian and Gay Christian Movement.
It also includes among its list of member groups the British Muslims for Secular Democracy, The General Assembly of Unitarian and Free Christian Churches and the race equality think tank The Runnymede Trust.
The Chair of the Accord Coalition is Rabbi Dr Jonathan Romain MBE, the minister of Maidenhead Synagogue.
Its supporters include academics, clergy, theologians and politicians from the four largest groupings in parliament.
The status of religious freedom around the world varies from country to country.
Over 120 national constitutions mention equality regardless of religion.
The current government of Afghanistan has only been in place since 2002, following a U.S.-led invasion which displaced the former Taliban government.
The Constitution of Afghanistan is dated January 23, 2004, and its initial three articles mandate: Article 2 of the Constitution of Argentina reads: "The Federal Government supports the Roman Catholic Apostolic religion."
Article 14 guarantees all the inhabitants of the Nation the right "to profess freely their religion."
The States; Section 116 of the Australian Constitution reads: "The Commonwealth shall not make any law for establishing any religion, or for imposing any religious observance, or for prohibiting the free exercise of any religion, and no religious test shall be required as a qualification for any office or public trust under the Commonwealth."
Austria guarantees freedom of religion through various constitutional provisions and through membership in various international agreements.
In Austria, these instruments are deemed to allow any religious group to worship freely in public and in private, to proselytize, and to prohibit discrimination against individuals because of their religious allegiances or beliefs.
However, part of the Austrian constitutional framework is a system of cooperation between the government and recognized religious communities.
The latter are granted preferential status by being entitled to benefits such as a tax-exempt status and public funding of religious education.< Currently, Austria recognizes twelve religions.
In addition to various Christian denominations including Jehovah's Witnesses, these include Judaism, Buddhism, and Islam.
To date, Austria has not granted full recognition to several newer and allegedly controversial religions such as the Church of Scientology.
Some newer religious groups, however, have applied under the 1998 Act and thereby attained the preliminary status of communities of believers.< Bangladesh was founded as a secular state, but Islam was made the state religion in the 1980s.
However in 2010, the High Court held up the secular principles of the 1972 constitution.
The Constitution of Bangladesh establishes Islam as the state religion but also allows other religions to be practiced in harmony.
Religious freedom has been codified into law since January 7, 1890, with a decree signed by President Deodoro da Fonseca in the newly established Republic.
It is a Constitutional right since the 1946 Constitution was enacted, up to and including the current 1988 Constitution of Brazil.
January 7 is the National Day of Religious Freedom in Brazil.
Every year since 1999 the U.S. State Department has designated Burma as a country of particular concern with regard to religious freedom.
Article 43 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Cambodia reads: "Khmer citizens of either sex shall have the right to freedom of belief.
Freedom of religious belief and worship shall be guaranteed by the State on the condition that such freedom does not affect other religious beliefs or violate public order and security.
Buddhism shall be the State religion."
Religious freedom in Canada is a constitutionally protected right, allowing believers the freedom to assemble and worship without limitation or interference.
There is no established church, however religious groups can qualify for tax-exemption.
The amount of funding religious schools receive varies from province to province.
In many provinces religious schools are government funded in the same way other independent schools are.
In most parts of Canada there is a Catholic education system alongside the secular "public" education system.
They all run on Catholic principles and include religious activities and instruction as a matter of course.
They are not exclusively attended by practicing Catholics.
The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which is entrenched in the Constitution, states in the preamble that Canada "is founded upon principles that recognize the supremacy of God and the rule of law."
Freedom of religion as also guaranteed.
The Supreme Court of Canada, in the case of Her Majesty The Queen in Right of Canada v. Big M Drug Mart Ltd., <nowiki>[</nowiki>1985<nowiki>]</nowiki> (1 S.C.R.
295) ruled that a 1906 statute that required most places to be closed on Sunday did not have a legitimate purpose in a "free and democratic society," and was an unconstitutional attempt to establish a religious-based closing law (see Blue law.)
The Constitution of the People's Republic of China provides for freedom of religious belief; however, the Government restricts religious practice to government-sanctioned organizations and registered places of worship and controls the growth and scope of the activity of religious groups.
Despite formal recognition of religious liberty, "religious freedom is accorded little respect in China."
Every year since 1999 the U.S. State Department has designated China as a country of particular concern with regard to religious freedom.
Denmark has freedom of worship, however the Church of Denmark does hold certain privileges.
According to Section 4 in the Constitution of Denmark: "The Evangelical Lutheran Church shall be the Established Church of Denmark, and, as such, it shall be supported by the State."
Egypt has a predominantly Islamic population.
The Constitution of Egypt makes no reference to an official State Church because Egypt is an Arab Republic that recognizes Islam as the State Religion.
Egypt's largest Christian population, which makes up approximately 10% of Egypt's total population follow the Coptic Orthodox Church.
Other churches exist in Egypt, such as the Coptic Catholic Church as well as some Protestant denominations.
However, their population composes a very small portion of Egypt's population.
The separation of the state's influence on religion and vice versa is often undetermined; many rights groups have claimed that some laws passed by the State are heavily influenced by the State Religion, and sometimes aimed at particular minorities in Egypt.
The Coptic Orthodox Church is in fairly good relations with the State.
This was seen when the State officially declared January 7, the Coptic Orthodox Christmas, as an official holiday in Egypt.
However, some laws (e.g., the 19th century Hamayouni Decree, which requires that the President of Egypt must approve any permits to build or repair any church in Egypt) still aim at persecuting the Coptic Orthodox Church.
Article 40 The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia reads: "Everyone has freedom of conscience, religion and thought.
Everyone may freely belong to churches and religious societies.
There is no state church.
Everyone has the freedom to exercise his or her religion, both alone and in community with others, in public or in private, unless this is detrimental to public order, health or morals."
As the national churches of Finland, the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland and the Finnish Orthodox Church have a status protected by law.
The special legal position of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland is also codified in the constitution of Finland.
Both churches have the right to levy an income tax on their members and every Finnish company as a part of Corporation Tax.
The tax is collected by the state.
The administration of the national churches is regulated by their respective church laws, which are drafted by the churches and enacted or rejected by the parliament.
State universities, religiously non-aligned in themselves, provide the theological education that is required to be ordained as clergy of the national churches.
The general direction has been to restrict and remove the privileges of the national churches, and as of 2004, in most other official business (such as officiating marriages) any registered religious community has a status comparable to that of the national churches.
Teaching Christianity in schools continued after they became a part of municipal jurisdiction in 1866.
Students, who were not members of either national church, gained the lawful right to be freed from such teaching with §8 of the Act of Religious Freedom of 1922 (in Finnish "Uskonnonvapauslaki", in Swedish "Religionsfrihetslagen").
The legal guardian of the pupil had to apply for the pupil to be freed.
Requirements for teacher competency for the teaching of religion and the corresponding subject for freed students "The history of religions and ethics" (in Finnish "Uskontojen historia ja siveysoppi", in Swedish "Religionshistoria och etik") have also varied.
Since 2003, world view related teaching is compulsory for all students in basic education (primary and secondary school).
Each primary and secondary school municipality must arrange teaching in the religion, which the majority of the students in the municipality are members of.
Also, for every group of at least three students, who belong to some other organized religion, teaching in their own religion must be arranged.
For a group of at least three students within the municipality, who do not belong to any organized religion, teaching in the subject "ethics" (in Finnish "elämänkatsomustieto", in Swedish "livsåskådningskunskap"), must be arranged.
If there are too few students for a teaching group for the student's own religion to be arranged, the student (or as most such students are minors, their parents) can choose between joining the teaching group for the majority religion, requesting ethics education or arranging the teaching from their own religious organization.
A teaching group for a minority religion or for ethics can be arranged for several schools together.
Current teacher education in Finland gives primary and secondary school teachers a basic competence to teach the national churches' religion, major world religions and ethics as school subjects.
However, it is also noted that a teacher should not have to teach a particular religion, if that offends her or his conscience, and any conflicts between students' right to education and teachers' religious freedom should be solved on a case-by-case basis.
Since 1905, France has had a law requiring separation of church and state, prohibiting the state from recognizing or funding any religion.
According to the French constitution, freedom of religion was already a constitutional right.
The 1905 law on secularity was highly controversial at the time.
France adheres to the notion of laïcité, that is, noninterference of the government into the religious sphere and noninterference of religion into government, and a strict neutrality of government in religious affairs.
References to religious beliefs by politicians to justify public policies are considered a political faux pas, since it is widely believed that religious beliefs should be kept out of the public sphere.
Public tax money supports some church-affiliated schools, but they must agree to follow the same curriculum as the public schools and are prohibited from forcing students to attend religion courses or to discriminate against students on the basis of religion.
Churches, synagogues, temples and cathedrals built before 1905, at the taxpayers' expense, are now the property of the state and the communes; however they may be gratuitously used for religious activities provided this religious use stays continuous in time.
Some argue that this is a form of unfair subsidy for the established religions in comparison to Islam.
The Alsace-Moselle area, which was part of Germany at the time the 1905 law was passed and was returned to France only after World War I, is still under the pre-1905 regime established of the French Concordat, which provides for the public subsidy of the Roman Catholic Dioceses of Metz and of Strasbourg, the Lutheran Protestant Church of Augsburg Confession of Alsace and Lorraine, the Protestant Reformed Church of Alsace and Lorraine and the three regional Israelite consistories as well as public education in those religions.
An original trait of this area is that priests are paid by the state; the bishops are named by the President on the proposal of the Pope.
Controversy erupts periodically on the appropriateness of these and other extraordinary legal dispositions of Alsace-Moselle (known as the local law), as well as on the exclusion of other religions in Alsace-Moselle from this arrangement.
In recent years, some legislation such as the About-Picard law and government actions were taken against some groups considered to be dangerous or criminal.
Officials and associations fighting excesses of such groups, justified these measures by the need to have appropriate legal tools and the need to fight criminal organizations masquerading as legitimate religious groups.
Critics such as the Church of Scientology, contended that those actions unfairly targeted minority religions, jeopardized freedom of religion, and were motivated by prejudice.
The matters were made even more complex by the fact that some of the groups involved are based in the United States, which prompted the intervention of the government of that country.
According to pastor Jean-Arnold de Clermont, head of the French Protestant federation and himself a strong critic of the first draft of the law, the complaints originating in the United States concerning religious freedom in France were largely based on biased, poor information.
The Georgian Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice.
After the wars that followed the Reformation, the principle cuius regio, eius religio divided the Holy Roman Empire in statelets with a homogeneous faith.
This principle was changed to religious freedom as a result of the Thirty Years' War in the 17th century.
Today, church and state are "separate," but there is cooperation in many fields, most importantly in the social sector.
Churches and religious communities, if they are large, stable and loyal to the constitution, can get special status from the state as a "corporation under public law" which allows the churches to levy taxes called Kirchensteuer (literally church tax) on their members.
This revenue is collected by the state for a cost-covering fee.
Payment of this tax is not voluntary for adherents of the respective religion who are otherwise obligated to pay taxes.
Since one's religion is officially recorded, exemption from this tax is possible only through leaving one's religion.
Being a member of one's own religious tradition in Germany therefore requires monetary payment to the respective ecclesiastical body (and, indirectly, a small portion to the state).
Religious instruction (for members of the respective religions) is an ordinary subject in public schools (in most states).
It is organized by the state, but also under the supervision of the respective religious community.
Teachers are educated at public universities, in departments that are nevertheless affiliated with a specific church (Protestant or Catholic) or with confessional Islam.
Parents, or students 14 years old and above, can decide not to take those religion classes, but most federal states require classes in "ethics" or "philosophy" as replacements.
A small but significant number of religious schools, which receive the majority of their funding (but never all of it) from the state, exist in most parts of the country; however nobody can be compelled to attend them.
There was considerable public controversy when the Federal Constitutional Court declared a Bavarian law requiring a crucifix in every classroom to be unconstitutional in 1997; Bavaria replaced it with a law still demanding the same, unless parents file a formal protest with the state.
The government generally respects religious freedom in practice.
There were reports of societal abuses based on religious affiliation, belief, or practice.
Right-wing groups and Muslim youth from immigrant backgrounds committed politically motivated crimes against some minority religious groups.
Some Jewish cemeteries were desecrated, and individuals from Muslim communities sometimes suffered societal discrimination.
The Roman Catholic and Protestant churches continued to use “sect commissioners” to warn the public of alleged dangers from some minority religious groups such as the Unification Church, Scientologists, Universelles Leben (Universal Life), and Transcendental Meditation practitioners.
Scientologists continued to find that “sect filters” were used to discriminate against them in education, employment, and political party membership.
A sect filter is defined as a written agreement a new employee has to sign stating that he or she has no contact with Scientology, has not participated in its training courses, and rejects its doctrines.
Prominent societal leaders, however, took positive steps to promote religious freedom and tolerance.
Many members of civil society, such as members of the Central Council of Muslims in Germany, members of the Turkish community, and members of prominent Jewish organizations, initiated discussions regarding Muslim integration and expressed commitment to that process.
Greece, as the only European Union (EU) country to ban proselytism in its constitution, is the only EU country that has been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for a lack of religious freedom .
The position of the Church of Greece and its relations with the State are set forth in Article 3, par.
1 of the present Constitution (1975/1986/2001).
According to this article: (a) The Greek-Orthodox dogma is the prevailing religion, (b) The Church of Greece is inseparably united in doctrine with the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople and with all other Orthodox Churches, and (c) The Church is self-administered and autocephalous.
Freedom of religion for all Greeks is guaranteed in the constitution and proselytism is outlawed.
An estimated 98 percent of the population identifies itself as Greek Orthodox.
The 1923 Treaty of Lausanne created an officially recognized “Muslim minority,” which consists of an estimated 140,000 to 150,000 individuals (approximately 1.3 percent of the Greek population) residing in Thrace.
The remaining population is composed of Roman Catholics, Protestants, Jews, Old Calendarist Orthodox, Jehovah’s Witnesses, members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), Scientologists, Baha’is, Hare Krishna devotees, and followers of polytheistic Hellenic religions.
Church leaders estimated that 30 percent of self-identified Orthodox regularly participates in religious services.
The government supports the Orthodox Church financially.
For example, the government pays for the salaries and religious training of Orthodox clergy, partially finances the maintenance of Orthodox Church buildings, and provides a tax exemption for the Orthodox Church’s property revenues.
Orthodox religious instruction in primary and secondary schools, at government expense, is mandatory for all students, although non-Orthodox students may exempt themselves by turning in a statement requesting exemption.
However, public schools offer no alternative activity or non-Orthodox religious instruction for these children.
Many private schools offer alternative religious instruction to their students.
Religious instruction is provided in Greek public schools, and students are taught the tenets of the Christian Orthodox faith (or, respectively, Islam, for the Muslim religious minority in Thrace).
Typically, one hour per week (out of the 32 hour program of studies) is devoted to these lessons.
However, students and parents can choose to opt out of religious instruction lessons by providing a written note to their school stating they desire to do so.
The Lord's Prayer or another prayer is typically recited before lessons, once a day, but school prayer attendance is not mandatory.
A Greek Government plan exists which would build an Islamic center and mosque on some 35,000 square meters of donated land in the Athens suburb of Peania.
The plan has drawn fire on grounds that Peania currently has no Muslim community.
The Mayor of Peania has initiated legal action, pointing to a century-old deed which, municipal authorities say, proves that the land on which the Mosque would be built belongs to Peania and not the central government.
Muslim communities have also criticized the Peania project, noting that such a mosque would be located some from Athens, where most of the capital's Muslim faithful live.
Das Leben des Jesus (The Life of Jesus), a satire which portrays Jesus as an incense-addicted hippy, was banned in Greece in 2005 under a blasphemy statute, while its writer, Gerhard Haderer, received a suspended six-month jail sentence.
However, both the ban and sentence were repealed on appeal and the book has circulated freely since.
In 2006 an Athens court decreed the official recognition of the ancient Greek pantheon as a "known religion".
The Indian constitution's preamble states that India is a secular state.
Freedom of religion is a fundamental right guaranteed by the constitution.
According to Article 25 of the Indian Constitution, every citizen of India has the right to "profess.practise and propagate religion", "subject to public order, morality and health" and also subject to other provisions under that article.
The constitution accords “all persons the right to worship according to their own religion or belief” and states that “the nation is based upon belief in one supreme God.” The first tenet of the country’s national ideology, Pancasila, similarly declares belief in one God.
The government does not allow for nonbelief.
Government employees must swear allegiance to the nation and to the Pancasila ideology.
Other laws and policies at the national and regional levels restrict certain types of religious activity, particularly among unrecognized religious groups and “deviant” sects of recognized religious groups.
The Indonesian Constitution states "every person shall be free to choose and to practice the religion of his/her choice" and "guarantees all persons the freedom of worship, each according to his/her own religion or belief".
The government, however, officially only recognises six religions, namely Islam, Protestantism, Catholicism, Hinduism, Buddhism and Confucianism.
The Iranian constitution was drafted during the Iranian Constitutional Revolution in 1906; While the constitution was modelled on Belgium's 1831 constitution, the provisions guaranteeing freedom of worship were omitted.
Subsequent legislation provided some recognition to the religious minorities of Zoroastrians, Jews and Christians, in addition to majority Muslim population, as equal citizens under state law, but it did not guarantee freedom of religion and "gave unprecedented institutional powers to the clerical establishment."
The Islamic Republic of Iran, that was established after the Iranian revolution, recognizes four religions, whose status is formally protected: Zoroastrianism, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.
Members of the first three minority religions receive special treatment under Iranian law.
However, adherents of the Bahá'í Faith, Iran's largest religious minority are not recognized and are persecuted.
Bahá'ís have been subjected to unwarranted arrests, false imprisonment, executions, confiscation and destruction of property owned by individuals and the Bahá'í community, denial of civil rights and liberties, and denial of access to higher education.
Since the Islamic Revolution of 1979, Iranian Bahá'ís have regularly had their homes ransacked or been banned from attending university or holding government jobs, and several hundred have received prison sentences for their religious beliefs.
Bahá'í cemeteries have been desecrated and property seized and occasionally demolished, including the House of Mírzá Buzurg, Bahá'u'lláh's father.
The House of the Báb in Shiraz has been destroyed twice, and is one of three sites to which Bahá'ís perform pilgrimage.
The constitution of the Republic of Ireland, as well as its laws and policies generally protect religious freedom, and the Irish government generally respects religious freedom in its actions.
There is no state religion.
The constitution mandates that “the State shall not … make any discrimination on the ground of religious belief, profession or status,” and it prohibits favoring one religious group over another.
Discrimination on the grounds of religion or belief is likewise prohibited.
The law does not restrict the teaching or practice of any faith.
Religious groups are not required to register with the government.
The government allows religious instruction in public schools, and primary and secondary schools are religiously based.
In 2012 a convention met to consider the blasphemy prohibition law, and voted to change it to make it illegal to incite religious hatred.
Certain state agencies, such as the Equality Authority and the Garda Racial and Intercultural Office (GRIO), are chartered with enforcing equality legislation and working on behalf of minority religious groups.
GRIO created an official training program for An Garda Síochána liaison officers who then regularly engage with immigrant communities and minority religious groups.
The 2011 census indicates the population is approximately 84 percent Roman Catholic, 3 percent Church of Ireland, 1 percent Muslim, 1 percent Orthodox Christian, 1 percent unspecified Christian, a small number of Presbyterians and Jews, with 6 percent of residents no claiming religious affiliation.
English Common Law, rather than Judaic Talmudic Law, is the legal tradition of Israel.
However, Judaic law applies in many civil matters, such as laws relating to marriage and divorce, and politics concerning the Temple Mount.
Israeli authorities have codified a number of religious laws in the country's political laws, including an official ban on commerce on Shabbat and a 1998 ban on the importation of nonkosher meat.
According to the 2009 US Department of State report on Israel and the occupied territories, "The Israeli Basic Law on Human Dignity and Liberty provides for freedom of worship and the Government generally respected this right in practice."
In Italy there is not a state religion, however the Catholic Church enjoys a special status due to its historical political authority and its sovereign status, both of which other religions do not have.
The Constitution recognises the Lateran treaty of 1929, later modified in 1984, which gave this special status to the Catholic Church, but also recognizes the separation of church and state, as stated in Article 7: Freedom of religion is enshrined in Article 8, which also gives the possibility to make arrangements with the State to other religions, not only Catholicism: Historically, Japan had long tradition of mixed religious practice between Shinto and Buddhism since the introduction of Buddhism in the 7th century.
Though the Emperor of Japan is supposed to be the direct descendant of Amaterasu Ōmikami, the Shinto sun goddess, all Imperial family members, as well as almost all Japanese, were Buddhists who also practiced Shinto religious rites as well.
Christianity flourished when it was first introduced by Francis Xavier, but was soon violently suppressed.
After the Meiji Restoration, Japan tried to remodel the state in line of modern European constitutional monarchy.
Upon learning that many European states sourced their constitutional authority to the Christian God, which Japanese religious tradition did not have, the emperor itself was substituted to its position.
Buddhism and Shintoism were officially separated and Shintoism was set as the state religion.
The Constitution specifically stated that Emperor is "holy and inviolable" (Tennou ha shinsei nishite okasu bekarazu).
During the period of Emperor Showa, the status of emperor was further elevated to be a living god (Arahito gami).
This ceased at the end of World War II, when the current constitution was drafted.
Article 20 the constitution of Japan drafted by the US occupation forces, in 1946 and currently in use, mandates a separation of religious organizations from the state, as well as ensuring religious freedom: "No religious organization shall receive any privileges from the State, nor exercise any political authority.
No person shall be compelled to take part in any religious act, celebration, rite or practice.
The State and its organs shall refrain from religious education or any other religious activity."
Like Germany, which has the CDU, Japan is not without a religiously affiliated political party.
The New Komeito Party is affiliated with Sōka Gakkai, a minor religion in Japan.
Japanese in general mix Buddhism, Shinto, and secularism in practice.
Japanese often have "Christian" weddings, though Japan is less than one percent Christian, but generally have Buddhist funerals.
A secular form of Christmas is widely observed.
Tenrikyo and other Japan-centered faiths are also present.
The North Korean constitution guarantees freedom of belief; however, the US Department of State International Religious Freedom Report for 2011 claims that "Genuine religious freedom does not exist."
According to the US Department of State, , the constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respected this right in practice.
Article 11 [Equality], paragraph 1, of the Constitution declares: "All citizens are equal before the law, and there may be no discrimination in political, economic, social, or cultural life on account of sex, religion, or social status."
The status of religious freedom in Malaysia is a controversial issue.
Islam is the official state religion and the Constitution of Malaysia provides for limited freedom of religion, notably placing control upon the 'propagation' of religion other than Islam to Muslims, a fundamental part of a number of other religions.
However, questions including whether Malays can convert from Islam and whether Malaysia is an Islamic state or secular state remains unresolved.
For the most part the multiple religions within Malaysia interact peacefully and exhibit mutual respect.
This is evident by the continued peaceful co-existence of cultures and ethnic groups.
A precedent of limiting the rights of the church – especially the Roman Catholic Church– was set by President Valentín Gómez Farías in 1833.
Later, President Benito Juárez enacted a set of laws that came to be known as the Leyes de Reforma between 1859 and 1863 in the backdrop of the Guerra de Reforma.
These laws mandated, among other things, the separation of church and state, allowed for civil marriages and a civil registry, and confiscated the church's property.
Tensions also existed between the Roman Catholic Church and the post-Revolution Mexican government.
Severe restrictions on the rights of the Church and members of the clergy were written into the country's 1917 constitution that led to the eruption of the Cristero War in 1926.
In 1992 the government reestablished diplomatic relations with the Holy See and lifted almost all restrictions on the Catholic Church.
This later action included granting all religious groups legal status, conceding them limited property rights, and lifting restrictions on the number of priests in the country.
However, the law continues to mandate a strict separation of church and state.
The constitution still bars members of the clergy from holding public office, advocating partisan political views, supporting political candidates, or opposing the laws or institutions of the state.
The constitution provides that education should avoid privileges of religion, and that one religion or its members may not be given preference in education over another.
Religious instruction is prohibited in public schools; however, religious associations are free to maintain private schools, which receive no public funds.
Religious groups may not own or administer broadcast radio or television stations.
Government permission is required for commercial broadcast radio or television to transmit religious programming.
In the Netherlands, freedom of religion found its roots in the religious wars that took place in the 16th century and which led to the first limited form of constitutional recognition of the freedom of religion in 1579.
With the last major revision of the Constitution in 1983 with respect to freedom of religion, the secularization between state and church that started in the 19th century was completed.
In Article 6, all discrimination based on religion or philosophy of life is forbidden.
With the insertion of the term "philosophy of life," the equal treatment of religious and non-religious philosophies of life is guaranteed in conformity with the international commitments of the Netherlands.
This article briefly reviews the legal and constitutional background of the Netherlands and the constitutional provisions relevant to freedom of religion.
It then lists the most important international agreements and laws affecting religious organizations.< The Netherlands has separation of church and state, but the government does recognize religious communities, especially in cultural affairs.
Schools founded by religious communities, whether Protestant, Catholic, Jewish or Islamic, receive government finance.
This was instituted in 1917 in what is known as the Pacification.
Religiously inspired broadcasting associations are also allowed to broadcast on the Netherlands Public Broadcasting.
As such the Netherlands does not have a strong separation between church and state, but instead the state sustains a plural society, which historically consists of multiple separated religious groups.
The Dutch monarch has always been a member of the Protestant Church in the Netherlands or its forebears, but there is no law anymore that states this has to be so.
There has never been a state church in New Zealand, although prayers are said in Parliament.
The New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990 codified freedom of religion and belief in Section 15.
Nigeria allows freedom of religion.
Islam and Christianity are the two major religions.
In many predominantly Muslim states, conversion from Islam to another religion is illegal and often a capital offense.
Religious freedom in Pakistan has come into conflict with sharia law.
The original Constitution of Pakistan did not discriminate between Muslims and non-Muslims.
Blasphemy laws stifle free speech.
Speaking in opposition to Islam and publishing an attack on Islam or its prophets are prohibited.
Pakistan's penal code now mandates the death penalty for anyone defiling the name of the Prophet Muhammad.
This penal code mandates life imprisonment for desecrating the Quran, and up to 10 years' imprisonment for insulting another's religious beliefs with intent to outrage religious feelings.
The Pakistan government does not ban formally the public practice of the Ahmadi Muslim sect, but its practice is restricted severely by law.
A 1974 constitutional amendment declared Ahmadis to be a non-Muslim minority because, according to the Government, they do not accept Muhammad as the last prophet of Islam.
However, Ahmadis consider themselves to be Muslims and observe Islamic practices.
In 1984, under Ordinance XX the government added Section 298(c) into the Penal Code, prohibiting Ahmadis from calling themselves Muslim or posing as Muslims; from referring to their faith as Islam; from preaching or propagating their faith; from inviting others to accept the Ahmadi faith; and from insulting the religious feelings of Muslims.
By passing through the numerous phases of colonial occupation, the relationship of the church and state in the Philippines has gradually changed from the collaboration of the Roman Catholic Church with the government during the Spanish era to the constitutionally mandated separation today.
The Republic of Poland is predominantly a Roman Catholic state with approximately 89 percent of the population Roman Catholic.
Groups that constitute less than 5 percent of the population include Polish Orthodox, Jehovah’s Witnesses, Lutherans, Greek Catholics, Pentecostals, and others.
The remainder of the state encompasses more than 151 churches or other religious organizations.
Freedom of religion is guaranteed by the Polish Constitution and major international conventions and agreements related to religion.
Most of these have been signed and ratified by Poland.
The Constitution provides, without any exception, separation of church and state, freedom of faith and religion, and equal rights for churches and other religious organizations.
After registration, churches and other religious organizations may enjoy their rights provided by various laws.
The relations between the State and the Roman Catholic Church are determined by the Concordat Between the Holy See and the Republic of Poland and by other laws.
The relations between the State and other major churches and religious organizations are determined by laws adopted pursuant to agreements concluded between their appropriate representatives and the Council of Ministers.< Article 13 of the Portuguese Constitution states, in part, that "No one may be privileged, favored, prejudiced, deprived of any right or exempted from any duty for reasons of ancestry, sex, race, language, territory of origin, religion, political or ideological beliefs, education, economic situation, social circumstances or sexual orientation."
The country is mostly Roman Catholic, although other Christian churches are on the rise since the 1974 Revolution which inserted the aforementioned article in the constitution.
Immigrants from ex-colonies are Muslim and Hindu.
Recent immigration from Eastern European countries also brought the presence of the Orthodox faith.
Article 13 of the constitution of the Republic of China provides that the people shall have freedom of religious belief.
From the foundation of the Kievan Rus dynasty until the institution of bolshevism, Russia maintained very close ties between the officially recognized religion, the Russian Orthodox Church, and the government.
These bonds became tightest under tsar Peter I ("Peter the Great"); in 1721, the office of Patriarch of Moscow was eliminated and replaced with a "Holy Governing Synod," presided over by an Imperial appointee and regulated by Imperial law.
From that point until 1917 the Russian Orthodox Church was explicitly a department of the Russian government.
After the October Revolution and bolshevik coup, the government of the Soviet Union was quite active in religious affairs, even though it was theoretically atheist and purely secular.
Between 1917 and 1922, Soviet authorities executed 28 Orthodox Bishops and over 1,000 priests.
A government-sponsored "renovation" known as the Living Church was instigated in May 1922 as a replacement for the Russian Orthodox Church.
It was eliminated in 1943 during the Second World War, but state intervention in religious affairs did not end, and religion was highly regulated and controlled until the end of the Soviet Union.
The 1930s witnessed severe persecution of all religions in the country as the state attempted to completely obliterate religious belief among the population.
Thousands of churches and monasteries were closed down and demolished and scores of clergy executed or sent to labor camps.
Stalin was forced to rehabilitate the ROC during the war as a means of rallying patriotism among the masses, leading to it being granted limited tolerance afterwards.
Nikita Khrushchev reintroduced harsh anti-religious campaigns in the 1950s-60s, but these ended with his expulsion as CPSU General Secretary in 1964.
From thenceforth, the Soviet government preferred more subtle atheistic propaganda to outright suppression of religion.
On October 9 and November 10, 1990, the Russian Parliament passed two freedom of conscience laws that formally disestablished the Russian Orthodox Church as the state church of Russia (this step had never actually been explicitly taken in the Soviet Union).
In 1997, however, the Russian Parliament passed a law restricting the activities of religious organizations within Russia.
Complete freedom is given to any religious organization officially recognized by the Soviet government before 1985: the Orthodox Church, Judaism, Islam, and Buddhism.
The basis for consideration as an official religion of the Russian Federation is supposed to be a 50-year presence in the state.
According to this criterion, Roman Catholicism, Lutheranism, and the Baptist faith should all enjoy official status as Russian religions.
However, this is not the case.
Non-official religions are strictly limited in that they are not permitted to operate schools or import non-Russian citizens to act as missionaries or clergy.
Likewise, they must annually re-register with local officials.
This act has been sharply criticized as antithetical to the concept of freedom of religion, especially in countries with religious organizations that expend a great deal of money and effort in proselytizing.
The Russian government also engages in practices that have been accused of being discriminatory against citizens who profess faiths other than Orthodox Christianity.
In the Russian armed forces — for which there continues to be universal conscription — no form of religious worship other than Orthodox Christian is permitted.
Thus, conscripted Jews, Muslims, and Buddhists (despite their ostensible religious freedom granted in the 1997 law) are prohibited from engaging in prayer, even if they do so in solitude.
Despite these overtly religious practices listed above, The Constitution of the Russian Federation adopted on December 12, 1993, declares the state to be secular, and that no religion shall be declared an official or compulsory religion.
The Constitution further provides for equality of all religious associations before the law and states in Article 14 that all religious organizations shall be separate from the state.
This provision is contained in the chapter that constitutes the fundamental principles of the constitutional system of the Russian Federation and cannot be changed except by a very complicated procedure established by the Constitution.
No other legal acts may contradict the fundamental principles of the Russian constitutional system.< The kingdom of Saudi Arabia is an Islamic theocratic monarchy in which Islam is the official religion; the law requires that all Saudi citizens be Muslims, but permits non-Muslim visitors or foreign workers to live among and deal with Muslims except in certain areas.
The Saudi Mutaween (Arabic: مطوعين), or Committee for the Propagation of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice (i.e., the religious police), prohibits the public practice of non-Muslim religions.
The Government claims to recognize the right of non-Muslims to worship in private; however it does not always respect this right in practice.
The constitution and other laws and policies protect religious freedom and, in practice, the government generally respected religious freedom.
The Church of Sweden lost its position as the state church on 1 January 2000.
Since then, 22 recognized religious denominations, in addition to the Church of Sweden, raise revenues through member-contributions made through the national tax system.
All recognized denominations are entitled to direct government financial support, contributions made through the national tax system, or a mix of both.
The state does not favor the Church of Sweden at the expense of other religious groups in any noticeable way.
Certain Christian religious holy days are national holidays.
School students from minority religious backgrounds are entitled to take relevant religious holidays.
Nominally, 99.0% of the Turkish population is Muslim of whom a majority belong to the Sunni branch of Islam.
The percentage of non-Muslims was much higher in the Ottoman Empire.
A sizeable minority of the population (10%-30%) is affiliated with the Alevi sect.
The remainder of the population belongs to other beliefs, particularly Christian denominations (Greek Orthodox, Armenian Apostolic, Syriac Orthodox, Chaldean Catholic, Church of the East), Judaism, Yezidism and others are nonreligious.
There were reports of societal abuses and discrimination based on religious affiliation, belief, or practice.
Threats against non-Muslims created an atmosphere of pressure and diminished freedom for some non-Muslim communities.
Many Christians, Baha’is, Jews, and Alevis faced societal suspicion and mistrust, and some elements of society continued to express anti-Semitic sentiments.
Additionally, persons wishing to convert from Islam sometimes experienced harassment and violence from relatives and neighbors.
Religious minorities complain that they are effectively blocked from careers in state institutions because of their faith.
Christians, Baha'is, and some Muslims face societal suspicion and mistrust, and more radical Islamist elements continue to express anti-Semitic sentiments.
Additionally, persons wishing to convert from Islam to another religion sometimes experience social harassment and violence from relatives and neighbors.
According to the most recent Eurobarometer Poll 2005, Turkey is a country with a strong stance of secularism since the republican revolution of October 29, 1923 and Mustafa Kemal Atatürk's modernization movement on March 3, 1924 which, among other things, abolished the Caliphate and removed all religious influence over the affairs of the state.
Even though the state has no official religion nor promotes any, it actively monitors the area between the religions.
The constitution recognises freedom of religion for individuals, whereas religious communities are placed under the protection of the state; but the constitution explicitly states that they cannot become involved in the political process (by forming a religious party, for instance) or establish faith-based schools.
No party can claim that it represents a form of religious belief; nevertheless, religious sensibilities are generally represented through conservative parties.
Freedom of religion and worship is a fundamental feature of Britain's traditions, except for the provisions of the Act of Settlement 1701 which mandates that no Catholic shall be the monarch of the United Kingdom, nor shall they be married to one.
For a mature democracy, the freedom was achieved relatively late, and some discriminatory laws against minority religions survived into modern times.
The new Human Rights Act 1998, which incorporates the European Convention on Human Rights into domestic law, guarantees the protection of individual rights, including freedom of thought, conscience, and religion, and the freedom to hold or adopt a religion or belief of one's choice.
Religious organizations are generally accorded the status of tax exempt public charities.
Religious education is mandated in state schools based on a syllabus reflecting the country's Christian traditions, but taking into account the other principal represented religions.
Students may be excused from attendance at religious worship or instruction upon the request of a parent.
Recent laws have shown sensitivity towards religious practices of different groups.
A greater role for the judiciary in protecting religious liberties is envisaged under the Human Rights Act.< Britain is a predominantly Christian country with two established, the Church of England (COE), the mother church of the Anglican Communion and state church in England and the Presbyterian Church of Scotland.
Roman Catholics, Baptists, Lutherans, Methodists and Orthodox are among the other Christian faiths present.
Most of the world's religions are also represented, including a large number of Muslims (2.7 million), Hindus (800,000), Sikhs (500,000), and Jews (285,000).
There are smaller communities west of Bahá'í (6,000), Buddhists (over 500 groups and centers), Jains (25,000) and Zoroastrians (5,000), as well as followers of new religious movements and pagans.
Many Britons consider themselves agnostic.< The Church of Scotland is Presbyterian while the Church of England is Anglican (Episcopalian).
The former is a national church guaranteed by law to be separate from the state, while the latter is a state-established church and any major changes to doctrine, liturgy, or structure must have parliamentary approval.
Neither Wales nor Northern Ireland currently have established churches: the Church in Wales was disestablished in 1920, the Church of Ireland in 1871.
The king or queen must promise to uphold the rights of the Presbyterian church in Scotland and the Anglican church in England.
He or she is the Supreme Governor of the Church of England, holding the title of Defender of the Faith, but an ordinary member of the Church of Scotland.
Neither church receives direct funding from taxation.
State schools must provide religious instruction and regular religious ceremonies, though parents may withdraw their children from either; the choice of religion is left up to the school governors, but in the absence of an explicit choice it is by default "broadly Christian;" the Church of England and the Catholic Church operate many state-funded schools and there are a small number of Jewish and Muslim ones.
Senior Church of England bishops have a right to sit in the House of Lords, the upper chamber of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.
The principle of freedom of religion is officially protected by the US constitution.
US Supreme Court rulings have re-stated and expanded upon the legal individual right of freedom of religion within the United States of America.
In the 17th and 18th centuries, many Europeans emigrated to what would later become the United States.
For some this was driven at least partly by the desire to worship freely in their own fashion.
These included a large number of nonconformists such as the Puritans and the Pilgrims as well as English Catholics.
However, with some exceptions, such as Roger Williams of Rhode Island, William Penn of Pennsylvania or the Roman Catholic Lord Baltimore in Maryland, most of these groups did not believe in religious toleration and in some cases came to America with the explicit aim of setting up an established religion.
The original U.S. Constitution stated that "...no religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States."
As a result of popular support, freedom of religion was re-emphasized in the U.S. Constitution with the passing of the Bill of Rights containing the First Amendment.
The clauses of the First Amendment stating that the federal government should not establish an official religion and should allow religious freedom are known respectively as the Establishment Clause and the Free Exercise Clause.
They state, "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof..." Religion plays a strong role in US politics, especially in controversial issues like abortion, euthanasia, and homosexuality.
Direct church-state issues also arise, currently including the question of whether or not school vouchers should be used to help parents pay for education at private schools which may have religious affiliations, and the status of the faith-based initiatives.
It is common practice for national politicians with strongly religious constituencies to cite religious texts or beliefs in support of certain policies.
In other areas voters may be more disapproving of expressions of religious faith by political candidates and government officials.
The Constitution formally allows religious freedom.
Every citizen is declared to be allowed to freely follow no, one, or more religions, practice his or her religion without violating the law, be treated equally regardless of his or her religion, be protected from being violated his or her religious freedom, but is prohibited to use religion to violate the law.
Despite the official position, Freedom House states that, although the conditions had improved in recent years, "freedom of religion and expression are again under attack in Vietnam" and "that the country’s recent economic liberalization is not equally matched by necessary improvements in political rights and civil liberties."
All religious groups and most clergy must join a party controlled supervisory body, religions must obtain permission to build or repair houses of worship, run schools, engage in charity or ordain or transfer clergy, and some clergy remain in prison or under serious state repression.
Religion in Scouting and Guiding is an aspect of the Scout method that has been practiced differently and given different interpretations over the years.
In contrast to the Christian-only Boys' Brigade, which started two decades earlier, Robert Baden-Powell founded the Scout movement as a youth organization (with boys as 'Scouts' and girls as 'Guides'), which was independent of any single faith or religion, yet still held that spirituality and a belief in a higher power were key to the development of young people.
Scouting organizations are free to interpret the method as laid down by the founder.
As the modern world has become more secular and as many societies have become more religiously diverse, this has caused misunderstandings and controversies in some of the national member organizations.
When creating the Scouting method, Baden-Powell was adamant that there was a place for God within it.
In Scouting for Boys, Baden-Powell wrote specifically about Christianity, since he was writing for youth groups in the United Kingdom: <blockquote> We aim for the practice of Christianity in their everyday life and dealings, and not merely the profession of theology on Sundays… </blockquote> Indeed, the Scout Promise as originally written by Baden-Powell states that Scout does their "duty to God".
However, the founder's position moved shortly after the Scout movement began to grow rapidly around the world, and his writings and speeches allowed for all religions.
He did continue to emphasise that God was a part of a Scout's life, without dictating a particular faith: <blockquote> When asked where religion came into Scouting and Guiding, Baden-Powell replied, It does not come in at all.
It is a fundamental factor underlying Scouting and Guiding.
<blockquote> Though we hold no brief for any one form of belief over another, we see a way to helping all by carrying the same principle into practice as is now being employed in other branches of education… </blockquote> <blockquote> Take a negative instance.
A Mahommedan Guider comes to England and addresses a lot of Girl Guides on religion, in the course of which she quotes Mahomet as the one divine teacher.
This in spite of the fact that her audience are believers in Christ.
How would you regard her action?
As tactless, as insulting, as fanatical?
At any rate it wouldn't be exactly polite or in accordance with our laws of courtesy.
Yet I have known Christian Guiders as well as Scouters do exactly the same thing with Jews or Hindoos or people of other beliefs present, and these on their part have sat under it, too polite to raise objections but none the less made uncomfortable by it.
Once, at a mixed gathering at a 'Scout's Own' a speaker carefully avoided much reference to Christ and was accused by some there of 'denying Him'.
His defence was that he was rather following Christ in that he was showing Christian deference to the feelings of others who, equally with himself, were sons of one Father, under whatever form they rendered homage to God.
Baden-Powell's gravestone bears no cross or other religious symbol.
Rather, in addition to the Boy Scout and Girl Guide Badges, it bears a circle with a dot in the centre, the trail sign for "Going home" / "I have gone home": &nbsp; .
Religion and spirituality is still a key part of the Scouting method.
The two major world organizations have slightly different interpretations.
The World Organization of the Scout Movement (WOSM) states the following in its Fundamental Principles: The World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts (WAGGGS) stated the following in the 21st World Conference in 1972: National organizations may further define it.
For instance, the current Religious Policy of The Scout Association of the United Kingdom states that:<br /> Many Scout/Guide groups are supported by local religious bodies, including Christian, Islamic, Jewish and Sikh communities.
These local groups often have a more strict interpretation on the original writings of Baden-Powell concerning religion.
However, since they often belong to national organizations that are not of a specific religion, there are usually groups in the neighbourhood that have a less strict interpretation.
Additionally, some national organizations are aimed at the adherents of a specific religion, but there usually are other Scouting/Guiding organizations within that country that are more open or have a more neutral point of view concerning religion.
The Scout Promise is easily adapted to accommodate these, and other, faiths.
For example, in its section on the Girl Scout Promise and Law, the website of the Girl Scouts of the USA (GSUSA) includes a note that: In Belgium, The association "Les Scouts" offers a neutral Promise text, with no mention to God.
FOS Open Scouting replaced "duty to God" with "loyal to a higher ideal" in their promise.
The SGP association (Scouts et Guides Pluralistes) offer that same text as an alternative to "God" or "my religion".
"Duty to God" is a principle of worldwide Scouting and WOSM requires its member National Scout Organizations to reference "duty to God" in their Scout Promises (see WOSM Scout Promise requirements).
Scouting associations apply this principle to their membership policies in different ways.
There are Scouting associations in some countries, such as France and Denmark, that are segregated on the basis of religious belief.
The Boy Scouts of America (BSA) in the United States takes a hard-line position, excluding atheists and agnostics.
The BSA has come under strong criticism over the past years due to their religious policy and stance against agnostics and atheists:<br /> The Boy Scouts of America has accepted Buddhist members and units since 1920, and also accepts members of various pantheistic faiths.
Many Buddhists do not believe in a supreme being or creator deity, but because these beliefs are still religious and spiritual in nature, they are deemed acceptable by the BSA since their leaders subscribe to the BSA Declaration of Religious Principle.
Scouts Canada states that all scouts have what's called a "Duty to God", defined as "The responsibility to adhere to spiritual principles, and thus to the religion that expresses them, and to accept the duties therefrom".
Additionally, the scout promises for each age group include references to God such as the Beaver promise: "I promise to love God and help take care of the world."
and the Scout/Venturer promise "... To do my duty to God and the Queen ...".
Scouts Canada maintains that a spiritual element is required for membership.
Scouts Canada has a "Religion in Life" emblem that is awarded upon completion of a particular denomination's program by a scout.
In 2009, a "Spirituality Award" for scouts and guides who did not belong to any denomination was established.
Girl Guides of Canada suggested a new version of their Promise that uses "my beliefs" instead of a direct references to God in 2009.
The new Promise was approved in 2010.
In Australia, Scouting makes no effort to find out if potential child members are atheists or agnostics.
The Australian Scout promise contains "duty to my god" as opposed to "duty to god" used by many other countries, allowing each member to make an individual personal interpretation.
In 2012, the promise was reworded to have to "develop my beliefs" instead of a direct reference to God.
The Scout Association of the United Kingdom allows members of any religion, or no religion at all.
Leaders, like all members, are not expected to be a member of any particular faith nor hold any religious belief of their own.
They are, however, expected to abide by the Association's religious policy which promotes mutual acceptance of beliefs within the Movement such as by encouraging young Scouts to explore their own beliefs as well as making general provisions and considerations for members, such as giving them advice and guidance and allowing for the observance of religious practices within the Group.
Previous to January 2014 it was necessary for all members of the Association to hold a faith, however this is no longer the case.
Scouts of religions other than Christianity can choose from a selection of alternatively worded promises.
Scouts of no religion can choose to make a promise that replaces "duty to God" with "to uphold our Scout values" followed by "to do my duty to the Queen".
Any member making their Promise can choose which version of the Promise they wish to do.
The change in policy followed a consultation conducted in 2012 to gauge support among members for an alternate atheist Scout promise, removing the invocation of a deity.
At the same time, the Guide Association, the parallel movement which began two years later, is to launch a consultation about its very similar promise, with views sought on all parts of the wording from early January.
TSA UK chief commissioner Wayne Bulpitt said religion would remain "a key element" even if a new variant of the promise was approved.
Julie Bentley, chief executive of the Guide Association, said its consultation would begin on 3 January.
From 1 September 2013 Girl Guding UK introduced a new promise, in which members promise ‘to be true to myself and develop my beliefs’ replacing ‘to love my God’ Approaches toward religion vary considerably in Scouting organizations not aligned with WOSM and WAGGGS.
For example, the website of Camp Fire states "We are inclusive, welcoming children, youth and adults regardless of race, religion, socioeconomic status, disability, sexual orientation or other aspect of diversity".
On the other hand, the American Heritage Girls are explicitly Christian and require all adult leaders to adhere to a specific Statement of Faith.
Indeed, the AHG was founded by parents who did not agree with the Girl Scouts' decision to allow other words to be substituted for "God" in the Promise (see above) and the GSUSA's official lack of membership policies based on sexual preference.
Scout groups handle religious practices in different ways.
Some Scouting organizations have many obligatorily religious merit badges as a way of fulfilling a requirement for a rank and others have a single voluntary religious merit badge or none at all.
Scouting organizations may recognise religious programs run by other organizations, like the religious emblems programs in the United States and Canada.
In Austria, Pfadfinder und Pfadfinderinnen Österreichs is a member of both WOSM and WAGGGS.
The association is open to members without prejudice to birth, nationality, religion or belief.
Both Promise and Law contain references to god.
There are chaplains on national level for Lutheran and for Roman Catholic groups and members, as well as a commissioner for spirituality on national level.
There can be chaplains on council- and group-level.
Some groups are attached to religious communities or parishes; but even these are open to members of all denominations or religions.
There are religious merit badges.
Requirements for awards include religion and spirituality.
Scouting Ireland is a member of WOSM.
The association is open to members without prejudice to birth, nationality, religion or belief.
The Law contains no reference to God and members are offered two alternative variants of the promise, one which refers to God and a second requiring that the member do their best to further their understanding and acceptance of a Spiritual Reality.
In Jordan the units are affiliated with the International Union of Muslim Scouts.
In Malaysia Girl Guides working on their Bintang Anugerah Ketua Pesuruhjaya (Head Commissioner Award) must complete a requirement about their faith.
In Slovenia, Zveza tabornikov Slovenije is a member of WOSM.
The guiding principles include plurality, openness to members without prejudice to birth, nationality, religion or belief; provided the member abides by the principles of pacifism, personal freedom, high moral and ethical principles and principles of the international scouting movement.
In the promise the reference to God is replaced with "acceptance and development of Spiritual reality".
No religious merit badges are in use.
A separate organization, Združenje slovenskih katoliških skavtinj in skavtov actively practices the Roman Catholic religion in its ranks.
This organization is a member of WAGGGS.
By agreement, the two organizations have a common highest level body and reciprocally provide to their members the benefits of membership in the two international organizations.
All members of The Scout Association are encouraged to: If a Scout Group, Explorer Scout Unit or Scout Network is composed of members of several denominations or religions, the young people should be encouraged to attend services of their own form of religion.
In October 2012 an eleven-year-old atheist boy was denied entry to the Scouts in Somerset, England.
As of 1 January 2014, an alternative promise is available for those of no faith.
The Boy Scouts of America (BSA) celebrates Scout Sunday and Scout Sabbath in February, while the Girl Scouts of the USA (GSUSA) celebrates similar holidays, known as Girl Scout Sabbath, Girl Scout Shabbat, and Girl Scout Sunday, in March.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) includes Scouting as an official part of its religious program for boys and young men.
The LDS Church was the first institutional sponsor of the BSA in the USA, and currently sponsors more BSA units than any other organization.
The Boy Scouts of America requires all scouts to believe in a God or comparable higher power, but currently admits Scouts who are non-theistic Buddhists, Jains, and Hindus from non-theistic sectarian groups.
The religious awards of all three faiths are recognized by The Boy Scouts of America.
The Girl Scouts of the USA does not have any requirement of faith or belief, and admits girls of any or no religious belief or doctrine, regardless of the presence or absence of belief in a God or comparable higher power.
Both organizations require their members to recite a pledge that includes a reference to God; the BSA pledge requires a commitment to do their "duty to God", while the GSUSA pledge asks girls "to serve God".
However, while GSUSA allows the elimination or substitution of "God" with an alternate word that represents a scout's beliefs, BSA does not.
In Cub Scouting, Cub Scouts working on their Bear rank must complete a requirement about their faith.
Members of the BSA's Scouting programs are eligible to work on their faith's religious emblem.
Currently, the Unitarian Universalist Association (UUA) has been the only religious emblems program, Religion in Life, to lose its BSA recognition.
In 1992, the UUA stated its opposition to the BSA's policies on homosexuals, atheists, and agnostics; and in 1993, the UUA updated the Religion in Life program to include criticism of the BSA policies.
In 1998, the BSA withdrew recognition of the Religion in Life program, stating that such information was incompatible with BSA programs.
The UUA removed the material from their curriculum and the BSA renewed their recognition of the program.
When the BSA found that the UUA was issuing supplemental material with the Religion in Life workbooks that included statements critical of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or personal religious viewpoint, the BSA's recognition was again withdrawn.
A number of religions and denominations have formed international organizations within Scouting and Guiding that should further the spiritual development of their adherents.
Most of these organizations employ two types of membership: individual and organizational.
ICCS, DESMOS, IUMS, WBSB, IFJS, CPGS and Won-Buddhism Scouts enjoy consultative status with the World Scout Committee, ICCG and CPGS with WAGGGS.
A number of non-religious associations, mainly from French speaking countries, formed in 1996 the Union Internationale des Associations Scoutes-Guides Pluralistes/Laïques (UIPL; International Union of pluralist/secular Scout and Guide associations).
The Friends Committee on Scouting is a religious body of the Religious Society of Friends and serves Boy Scouts of America, Girl Scouts of the USA, Scouts Canada, Girl Guides of Canada and Camp Fire.
"God of the gaps" is a term used to describe observations of theological perspectives in which gaps in scientific knowledge are taken to be evidence or proof of God's existence.
The term was invented by Christian theologians not to discredit theism but rather to point out the fallacy of relying on teleological arguments for God's existence.
Some use the phrase to refer to a form of the argument from ignorance fallacy.
The concept, although not the exact wording, goes back to Henry Drummond, a 19th-century evangelist lecturer, from his Lowell Lectures on The Ascent of Man.
He chastises those Christians who point to the things that science can not yet explain—"gaps which they will fill up with God"—and urges them to embrace all nature as God's, as the work of "... an immanent God, which is the God of Evolution, is infinitely grander than the occasional wonder-worker, who is the God of an old theology."
During World War II the German theologian and martyr Dietrich Bonhoeffer expressed the concept in similar terms in letters he wrote while in a Nazi prison.
In his 1955 book Science and Christian Belief Charles Alfred Coulson (1910−1974) wrote: Coulson was a mathematics professor at Oxford University as well as a Methodist church leader, often appearing in the religious programs of British Broadcasting Corporation.
His book got national attention, was reissued as a paperback, and was reprinted several times, most recently in 1971.
It is claimed that the actual phrase 'God of the gaps' was invented by Coulson.< <ref>A.
Hough, Not a Gap in Sight: Fifty Years of Charles Coulson's Science and Christian Belief, Theology 2006 109: 21−27.
The term was then used in a 1971 book and a 1978 article, by Richard Bube.
He articulated the concept in greater detail in Man come of Age: Bonhoeffer’s Response to the God-of-the-Gaps (1978).
Bube attributed modern crises in religious faith in part to the inexorable shrinking of the God-of-the-gaps as scientific knowledge progressed.
As humans progressively increased their understanding of nature, the previous "realm" of God seemed to many persons and religions to be getting smaller and smaller by comparison.
Bube maintained that Darwin's Origin of Species was the "death knell" of the God-of-the-gaps.
Bube also maintained that the God-of-the-gaps was not the same as the God of the Bible (that is, he was not making an argument against God per se, but rather asserting there was a fundamental problem with the perception of God as existing in the gaps of present-day knowledge).
The term "God of the gaps" is sometimes used in describing the incremental retreat of religious explanations of physical phenomena in the face of increasingly comprehensive scientific explanations for those phenomena.
R. Laird Harris writes: <blockquote>The expression, "God of the Gaps," contains a real truth.
It is erroneous if it is taken to mean that God is not immanent in natural law but is only to be observed in mysteries unexplained by law.
No significant Christian group has believed this view.
It is true, however, if it be taken to emphasize that God is not only immanent in natural law but also is active in the numerous phenomena associated with the supernatural and the spiritual.
There are gaps in a physical-chemical explanation of this world, and there always will be.
Because science has learned many marvelous secrets of nature, it cannot be concluded that it can explain all phenomena.
Meaning, soul, spirits, and life are subjects incapable of physical-chemical explanation or formation.< One example of such an argument, which uses God as an explanation of one of the current gaps in biological science, is as follows: "Because current science can't figure out exactly how life started, it must be God who caused life to start."
Critics of intelligent design creationism, for example, have accused proponents of using this basic type of argument.
God-of-the-gaps arguments have been discouraged by some theologians who assert that such arguments tend to relegate God to the leftovers of science: as scientific knowledge increases, the dominion of God decreases.
The term was invented as a criticism of people who perceive that God only acts in the gaps, and who restrict God's activity to such "gaps".
It has also been argued that the God-of-the-gaps view is predicated on the assumption that any event which can be explained by science automatically excludes God; that if God did not do something via direct action, God didn't do it at all.
The "God of the gaps" argument, as traditionally advanced by scholarly Christians, was intended as a criticism against weak or tenuous faith, not as a statement against theism or belief in God.
According to John Habgood in The Westminster Dictionary of Christian Theology, the phrase is generally derogatory, and is inherently a direct criticism of a tendency to postulate acts of God to explain phenomena for which science has yet to give a satisfactory account.
<blockquote>It is theologically more satisfactory to look for evidence of God's actions within natural processes rather than apart from them, in much the same way that the meaning of a book transcends, but is not independent of, the paper and ink of which it is comprised.< Both many theologians and scientists believe that it is a logical fallacy to base belief in God on gaps in scientific knowledge.
In this vein, Richard Dawkins, an atheist, dedicates a chapter of his book The God Delusion to criticism of the God-of-the-gaps fallacy.
Other scientists holding religious beliefs, such as Francis Collins, reject a God-of-the-gaps while embracing the idea of a God who fine tuned the universe precisely so human life could exist.
Freedom of religion or freedom of belief is a principle that supports the freedom of an individual or community, in public or private, to manifest religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship, and observance.
It also includes the freedom to change one's religion or belief.
Freedom of religion is considered by many people and nations to be a fundamental human right.
In a country with a state religion, freedom of religion is generally considered to mean that the government permits religious practices of other sects besides the state religion, and does not persecute believers in other faiths.
Historically, freedom of religion has been used to refer to the tolerance of different theological systems of belief, while freedom of worship has been defined as freedom of individual action.
Each of these have existed to varying degrees.
While many countries have accepted some form of religious freedom, this has also often been limited in practice through punitive taxation, repressive social legislation, and political disenfranchisement.
Compare examples of individual freedom in Italy or the Muslim tradition of dhimmis, literally "protected individuals" professing an officially tolerated non-Muslim religion.
In Antiquity, a syncretic point of view often allowed communities of traders to operate under their own customs.
When street mobs of separate quarters clashed in a Hellenistic or Roman city, the issue was generally perceived to be an infringement of community rights.
Cyrus the Great established the Achaemenid Empire ca.
550 BC, and initiated a general policy of permitting religious freedom throughout the empire, documenting this on the Cyrus Cylinder.
Some of the historical exceptions have been in regions where one of the revealed religions has been in a position of power: Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Christianity and Islam.
Others have been where the established order has felt threatened, as shown in the trial of Socrates in 399 BC or where the ruler has been deified, as in Rome, and refusal to offer token sacrifice was similar to refusing to take an oath of allegiance.
This was the core for resentment and the persecution of early Christian communities.
Freedom of religious worship was established in the Buddhist Maurya Empire of ancient India by Ashoka the Great in the 3rd century BC, which was encapsulated in the Edicts of Ashoka.
Greek-Jewish clashes at Cyrene in 73 AD and 117 AD and in Alexandria in 115 AD provide examples of cosmopolitan cities as scenes of tumult.
Following a period of fighting lasting around a hundred years before 620 AD which mainly involved Arab and Jewish inhabitants of Medina (then known as Yathrib), religious freedom for Muslims, Jews and pagans were declared by Muhammad in the Constitution of Medina.
The Islamic Caliphate later guaranteed religious freedom under the conditions that non-Muslim communities accept dhimmi (second class) status and their adult males pay the punitive jizya tax instead of the zakat paid by Muslim citizens.
Religious pluralism existed in classical Islamic ethics and Sharia, as the religious laws and courts of other religions, including Christianity, Judaism and Hinduism, were usually accommodated within the Islamic legal framework, as seen in the early Caliphate, Al-Andalus, Indian subcontinent, and the Ottoman Millet system.
In medieval Islamic societies, the qadi (Islamic judges) usually could not interfere in the matters of non-Muslims unless the parties voluntarily choose to be judged according to Islamic law, thus the dhimmi communities living in Islamic states usually had their own laws independent from the Sharia law, such as the Jews who would have their own Halakha courts.
Dhimmis were allowed to operate their own courts following their own legal systems in cases that did not involve other religious groups, or capital offences or threats to public order.
Non-Muslims were allowed to engage in religious practices that was usually forbidden by Islamic law, such as the consumption of alcohol and pork, as well as religious practices which Muslims found repugnant, such as the Zoroastrian practice of incestuous "self-marriage" where a man could marry his mother, sister or daughter.
According to the famous Islamic legal scholar Ibn Qayyim (1292–1350), non-Muslims had the right to engage in such religious practices even if it offended Muslims, under the conditions that such cases not be presented to Islamic Sharia courts and that these religious minorities believed that the practice in question is permissible according to their religion.
ISIS re-established the punitive jizya tax and forbade Christians in Syria from building places of worship, ringing bells, wearing crosses or criticizing Islam, or face beheading.
Religious freedom and the right to worship freely were practices that had been appreciated and promoted by most ancient Indian dynasties.
As a result, people fleeing religious persecution in other parts of the world including Christians, Jews, Bahá'í Faith and Zoroastrians fled to India as a place of refuge to enjoy religious freedom.
Ancient Jews fleeing from persecution in their homeland 2,500 years ago settled in India and never faced anti-Semitism.
Freedom of religion edicts have been found written during Ashoka the Great's reign in the 3rd century BC.
Freedom to practise, preach and propagate any religion is a constitutional right in Modern India.
Most major religious festivals of the main communities are included in the list of national holidays.
Many scholars and intellectuals believe that India's predominant religion, Hinduism, has long been a most tolerant religion.
Rajni Kothari, founder of the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies has written, "[India] is a country built on the foundations of a civilisation that is fundamentally non-religious."
The Dalai Lama, the Tibetan leader in exile said that religious tolerance of 'Aryabhoomi,' a reference to India found in Mahabharata, has been in existence in this country from thousands of years.
"Not only Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism, Sikhism which are the native religions but also Christianity and Islam have flourished here.
Religious tolerance is inherent in Indian tradition," the Dalai Lama said.
Freedom of religion in the Indian subcontinent is exemplified by the reign of King Piyadasi (304 BC to 232 BC) (Ashoka).
One of King Ashoka's main concerns was to reform governmental institutes and exercise moral principles in his attempt to create a just and humane society.
Later he promoted the principles of Buddhism, and the creation of a just, understanding and fair society was held as an important principle for many ancient rulers of this time in the East.
The importance of freedom of worship in India was encapsulated in an inscription of Ashoka: The initial entry of Islam into South Asia came in the first century after the death of the Islamic Prophet Muhammad.
When around 1210 AD the Islamic Sultanates invaded India from the north-west, gradually the principle of freedom of religion deteriorated in this part of the world.
They were subsequently replaced by another Islamic invader in the form of Babur.
The Mughal empire was founded by the Mongol leader Babur in 1526, when he defeated Ibrahim Lodi, the last of the Delhi Sultans at the First Battle of Panipat.
The word "Mughal" is the Indo-Iranian version of Mongol.
On the main Asian continent, the Mongols were tolerant of religions.
People could worship as they wished freely and openly, though the formation of 2 nations i.e.
Pakistan and Bangladesh has been on basis of religious intolerance.
After arrival of Europeans, Christians in zeal to convert local as per belief in conversion as service of God, have also been seen to fall into frivolous methods since their arrival.
Though by and large there are hardly any reports of law and order disturbance from mobs with Christian beliefs except perhaps in the north eastern region of India.
Freedom of religion in contemporary India is a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 25 of the nation's constitution.
Accordingly, every citizen of India has a right to profess, practice and propagate their religions peacefully.
Vishwa Hindu Parishad counters this argument by saying that evangelical Christians are forcefully (or through money) converting rural, illiterate populations and they are only trying to stop this.
In September 2010, Indian state Kerala's State Election Commissioner announced that "Religious heads cannot issue calls to vote for members of a particular community or to defeat the nonbelievers".
The Catholic Church comprising Latin, Syro-Malabar and Syro-Malankara rites used to give clear directions to the faithful on exercising their franchise during elections through pastoral letters issued by bishops or council of bishops.
The pastoral letter issued by Kerala Catholic Bishops' Council (KCBC) on the eve of the poll urged the faithful to shun atheists.
Even today, most Indians celebrate all religious festivals with equal enthusiasm and respect.
Hindu festivals like Deepavali and Holi, Muslim festivals like Eid al-Fitr, Eid-Ul-Adha, Muharram, Christian festivals like Christmas and other festivals like Buddha Purnima, Mahavir Jayanti, Gur Purab etc.
are celebrated and enjoyed by all Indians.
Most Roman Catholic kingdoms kept a tight rein on religious expression throughout the Middle Ages.
Jews were alternately tolerated and persecuted, the most notable examples of the latter being the expulsion of all Jews from Spain in 1492.
Some of those who remained and converted were tried as heretics in the Inquisition for allegedly practicing Judaism in secret.
Despite the persecution of Jews, they were the most tolerated non-Catholic faith in Europe.
However, the latter was in part a reaction to the growing movement that became the Reformation.
As early as 1380, John Wycliffe in England denied transubstantiation and began his translation of the Bible into English.
He was condemned in a Papal Bull in 1410, and all his books were burned.
In 1414, Jan Hus, a Bohemian preacher of reformation, was given a safe conduct by the Holy Roman Emperor to attend the Council of Constance.
Not entirely trusting in his safety, he made his will before he left.
His forebodings proved accurate, and he was burned at the stake on 6 July 1415.
The Council also decreed that Wycliffe's remains be disinterred and cast out.
This decree was not carried out until 1429.
After the fall of the city of Granada, Spain, in 1492, the Muslim population was promised religious freedom by the Treaty of Granada, but that promise was short-lived.
In 1501, Granada's Muslims were given an ultimatum to either convert to Christianity or to emigrate.
The majority converted, but only superficially, continuing to dress and speak as they had before and to secretly practice Islam.
The Moriscos (converts to Christianity) were ultimately expelled from Spain between 1609 (Castile) and 1614 (rest of Spain), by Philip III.
Martin Luther published his famous 95 Theses in Wittenberg on 31 October 1517.
His major aim was theological, summed up in the three basic dogmas of Protestantism: In consequence, Luther hoped to stop the sale of indulgences and to reform the Church from within.
In 1521, he was given the chance to recant at the Diet of Worms before Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, then only 19.
After he refused to recant, he was declared heretic.
Partly for his own protection, he was sequestered on the Wartburg in the possessions of Frederick III, Elector of Saxony, where he translated the New Testament into German.
He was excommunicated by Papal Bull in 1521.
However, the movement continued to gain ground in his absence and spread to Switzerland.
Huldrych Zwingli preached reform in Zürich from 1520 to 1523.
He opposed the sale of indulgences, celibacy, pilgrimages, pictures, statues, relics, altars, and organs.
This culminated in outright war between the Swiss cantons that accepted Protestantism and the Catholics.
The Catholics were victorious, and Zwingli was killed in battle in 1531.
The Catholic cantons were magnanimous in victory.
The defiance of Papal authority proved contagious, and in 1533, when Henry VIII of England was excommunicated for his divorce and remarriage to Anne Boleyn, he promptly established a state church with bishops appointed by the crown.
This was not without internal opposition, and Thomas More, who had been his Lord Chancellor, was executed in 1535 for opposition to Henry.
In 1535, the Swiss canton of Geneva became Protestant.
In 1536, the Bernese imposed the reformation on the canton of Vaud by conquest.
They sacked the cathedral in Lausanne and destroyed all its art and statuary.
John Calvin, who had been active in Geneva was expelled in 1538 in a power struggle, but he was invited back in 1540.
The same kind of seesaw back and forth between Protestantism and Catholicism was evident in England when Mary I of England returned that country briefly to the Catholic fold in 1553 and persecuted Protestants.
However, her half-sister, Elizabeth I of England was to restore the Church of England in 1558, this time permanently, and began to persecute Catholics again.
The King James Bible commissioned by King James I of England and published in 1611 proved a landmark for Protestant worship, with official Catholic forms of worship being banned.
In France, although peace was made between Protestants and Catholics at the Treaty of Saint Germain in 1570, persecution continued, most notably in the Massacre of Saint Bartholomew's Day on 24 August 1572, in which thousands of Protestants throughout France were killed.
A few years before, at the "Michelade" of Nîmes in 1567, Protestants had massacred the local Catholic clergy.
The Norman Kingdom of Sicily under Roger II was characterized by its multi-ethnic nature and religious tolerance.
Normans, Jews, Muslim Arabs, Byzantine Greeks, Lombards, and native Sicilians lived in harmony.
Rather than exterminate the Muslims of Sicily, Roger II's grandson Emperor Frederick II of Hohenstaufen (1215—1250) allowed them to settle on the mainland and build mosques.
Not least, he enlisted them in his – Christian – army and even into his personal bodyguards Bohemia (present-day Czech Republic) enjoyed religious freedom between 1436 and 1520, and became one of the most liberal countries of the Christian world during that period of time.
The so-called Basel Compacts of 1436 declared the freedom of religion and peace between Catholics and Utraquists.
In 1609 Emperor Rudolf II granted Bohemia greater religious liberty with his Letter of Majesty.
The privileged position of the Catholic Church in the Czech kingdom was firmly established after the Battle of White Mountain in 1620.
Gradually freedom of religion in Bohemian lands came to an end and Protestants fled or were expelled from the country.
A devout Catholic, Emperor Ferdinand II forcibly converted Austrian and Bohemian Protestants.
In the meantime, in Germany Philip Melanchthon drafted the Augsburg Confession as a common confession for the Lutherans and the free territories.
It was presented to Charles V in 1530.
In the Holy Roman Empire, Charles V agreed to tolerate Lutheranism in 1555 at the Peace of Augsburg.
Each state was to take the religion of its prince, but within those states, there was not necessarily religious tolerance.
Citizens of other faiths could relocate to a more hospitable environment.
In France, from the 1550s, many attempts to reconcile Catholics and Protestants and to establish tolerance failed because the State was too weak to enforce them.
It took the victory of prince Henry IV of France, who had converted into Protestantism, and his accession to the throne, to impose religious tolerance formalized in the Edict of Nantes in 1598.
It would remain in force for over 80 years until its revocation in 1685 by Louis XIV of France.
Intolerance remained the norm until Louis XVI, who signed the Edict of Versailles (1787), then the constitutional text of 24 December 1789, granting civilian rights to Protestants.
The French Revolution then abolished state religion and confiscated all Church property, turning intolerance against Catholics.
In 1558, the Transylvanian Diet of Torda declared free practice of both the Catholic and Lutheran religions, but prohibited Calvinism.
Ten years later, in 1568, the Diet extended the freedom to all religions, declaring that "It is not allowed to anybody to intimidate anybody with captivity or expelling for his religion".
However, it was more than a religious tolerance, it declared the equality of the religions.
The emergence in social hierarchy wasn't depend on the religion of the person thus Transylvania had also Catholic and Protestant monarchs (Princes).
The lack of state religion was unique for centuries in Europe.
Therefore, the Edict of Torda is considered by mostly Hungarian historians as the first legal guarantee of religious freedom in Christian Europe.
In the Union of Utrecht (20 January 1579), personal freedom of religion was declared in the struggle between the Northern Netherlands and Spain.
The Union of Utrecht was an important step in the establishment of the Dutch Republic (from 1581 to 1795).
Under Calvinist leadership, the Netherlands became the most tolerant country in Europe.
It granted asylum to persecuted religious minorities, e.g.
French Huguenots, English Dissenters, and Jews who had been expelled from Spain and Portugal.
The establishment of a Jewish community in the Netherlands and New Amsterdam (present-day New York) during the Dutch Republic is an example of religious freedom.
When New Amsterdam surrendered to the English in 1664, freedom of religion was guaranteed in the Articles of Capitulation.
It benefitted also the Jews who had landed on Manhattan Island in 1654, fleeing Portuguese persecution in Brazil.
During the 18th century, other Jewish communities were established at Newport, Rhode Island, Philadelphia, Charleston, Savannah, and Richmond.
Intolerance of dissident forms of Protestantism also continued, as evidenced by the exodus of the Pilgrims, who sought refuge, first in the Netherlands, and ultimately in America, founding Plymouth Colony in Massachusetts in 1620.
William Penn, the founder of Philadelphia, was involved in a case which had a profound effect upon future American laws and those of England.
In a classic case of jury nullification the jury refused to convict William Penn of preaching a Quaker sermon, which was illegal.
Even though the jury was imprisoned for their acquittal, they stood by their decision and helped establish the freedom of religion.
Poland has a long tradition of religious freedom.
The right to worship freely was a basic right given to all inhabitants of the Commonwealth throughout the 15th and early 16th century, however, complete freedom of religion was officially recognized in Poland in 1573 during the Warsaw Confederation.
Poland kept religious freedom laws during an era when religious persecution was an everyday occurrence in the rest of Europe.
The General Charter of Jewish Liberties known as the Statute of Kalisz was issued by the Duke of Greater Poland Boleslaus the Pious on 8 September 1264 in Kalisz.
The statute served as the basis for the legal position of Jews in Poland and led to creation of the Yiddish-speaking autonomous Jewish nation until 1795.
The statute granted exclusive jurisdiction of Jewish courts over Jewish matters and established a separate tribunal for matters involving Christians and Jews.
Additionally, it guaranteed personal liberties and safety for Jews including freedom of religion, travel, and trade.
The statute was ratified by subsequent Polish Kings: Casimir III of Poland in 1334, Casimir IV of Poland in 1453 and Sigismund I of Poland in 1539.
The Commonwealth set a precedent by allowing Jews to become ennobled.
Most of the early colonies were generally not tolerant of dissident forms of worship, with Maryland being one of the exceptions.
For example, Roger Williams found it necessary to found a new colony in Rhode Island to escape persecution in the theocratically dominated colony of Massachusetts.
The Puritans of the Massachusetts Bay Colony were the most active of the New England persecutors of Quakers, and the persecuting spirit was shared by Plymouth Colony and the colonies along the Connecticut river.
In 1660, one of the most notable victims of the religious intolerance was English Quaker Mary Dyer, who was hanged in Boston, Massachusetts for repeatedly defying a Puritan law banning Quakers from the colony.
As one of the four executed Quakers known as the Boston martyrs, the hanging of Dyer on the Boston gallows marked the beginning of the end of the Puritan theocracy and New England independence from English rule, and in 1661 King Charles II explicitly forbade Massachusetts from executing anyone for professing Quakerism.
Freedom of religion was first applied as a principle of government in the founding of the colony of Maryland, founded by the Catholic Lord Baltimore, in 1634.
Fifteen years later (1649), the Maryland Toleration Act, drafted by Lord Baltimore, provided: "No person or persons...shall from henceforth be any waies troubled, molested or discountenanced for or in respect of his or her religion nor in the free exercise thereof."
The Maryland Toleration Act was repealed during the Cromwellian Era with the assistance of Protestant assemblymen and a new law barring Catholics from openly practicing their religion was passed.
In 1657, the Catholic Lord Baltimore regained control after making a deal with the colony's Protestants, and in 1658 the Act was again passed by the colonial assembly.
This time, it would last more than thirty years, until 1692 when, after Maryland's Protestant Revolution of 1689, freedom of religion was again rescinded.
In addition, in 1704, an Act was passed "to prevent the growth of Popery in this Province", preventing Catholics from holding political office.
Full religious toleration would not be restored in Maryland until the American Revolution, when Maryland's Charles Carroll of Carrollton signed the American Declaration of Independence.
Rhode Island (1636), Connecticut (1636), New Jersey, and Pennsylvania (1682)—founded by Protestants Roger Williams, Thomas Hooker, and William Penn, respectively—combined the democratic form of government which had been developed by the Puritans and the Separatist Congregationalists in Massachusetts with religious freedom.
These colonies became sanctuaries for persecuted religious minorities.
Catholics and later on Jews also had full citizenship and free exercise of their religions.
Williams, Hooker, Penn, and their friends were firmly convinced that freedom of conscience was the will of God.
Williams gave the most profound argument: As faith is the free work of the Holy Spirit, it cannot be forced on a person.
Therefore, strict separation of church and state has to be kept.
Pennsylvania was the only colony that retained unlimited religious freedom until the foundation of the United States in 1776.
It was the inseparable connection between democracy, religious freedom, and the other forms of freedom which became the political and legal basis of the new nation.
In particular, Baptists and Presbyterians demanded the disestablishment of state churches - Anglican and Congregationalist - and the protection of religious freedom.
Reiterating Maryland's and the other colonies' earlier colonial legislation, the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom, written in 1779 by Thomas Jefferson, proclaimed: <blockquote>[N]o man shall be compelled to frequent or support any religious worship, place, or ministry whatsoever, nor shall be enforced, restrained, molested, or burthened in his body or goods, nor shall otherwise suffer, on account of his religious opinions or belief; but that all men shall be free to profess, and by argument to maintain, their opinions in matters of religion, and that the same shall in no wise diminish, enlarge, or affect their civil capacities.< Those sentiments also found expression in the First Amendment of the national constitution, part of the United States' Bill of Rights: "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof..." The United States formally considers religious freedom in its foreign relations.
The International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 established the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom which investigates the records of over 200 other nations with respect to religious freedom, and makes recommendations to submit nations with egregious records to ongoing scrutiny and possible economic sanctions.
Many human rights organizations have urged the United States to be still more vigorous in imposing sanctions on countries that do not permit or tolerate religious freedom.
Freedom of religion in Canada is a constitutionally protected right, allowing believers the freedom to assemble and worship without limitation or interference.
Canadian law goes further, requiring that private citizens and companies provide reasonable accommodation to those, for example, with strong religious beliefs.
The Canadian Human Rights Act allows an exception to reasonable accommodation with respect to religious dress, such as a Sikh turban, when there is a bona fide occupational requirement, such as a workplace requiring a hard hat.
On 25 November 1981, the United Nations General Assembly passed the "Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief".
This declaration recognizes freedom of religion as a fundamental human right in accordance with several other instruments of international law, but the international community has not passed any binding legal instruments that guarantee the right to freedom of religion.
In 1993, the UN's human rights committee declared that article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights "protects theistic, non-theistic and atheistic beliefs, as well as the right not to profess any religion or belief."
The committee further stated that "the freedom to have or to adopt a religion or belief necessarily entails the freedom to choose a religion or belief, including the right to replace one's current religion or belief with another or to adopt atheistic views."
Signatories to the convention are barred from "the use of threat of physical force or penal sanctions to compel believers or non-believers" to recant their beliefs or convert.
Despite this, minority religions still are still persecuted in many parts of the world.
Within the United States, the Freedom From Religion Foundation argues that the United States Constitution not only prohibits the intrusion of religion into the processes of government, but also guarantees equal rights to citizens who choose not to follow any religion.
Conservative sociopolitical commentator Bryan Fischer has responded: "The Constitution guarantees freedom of religion, not freedom from religion."
Adam Smith, in his book The Wealth of Nations (using an argument first put forward by his friend and contemporary David Hume), states that in the long run it is in the best interests of society as a whole and the civil magistrate (government) in particular to allow people to freely choose their own religion, as it helps prevent civil unrest and reduces intolerance.
So long as there are enough different religions and/or religious sects operating freely in a society then they are all compelled to moderate their more controversial and violent teachings, so as to be more appealing to more people and so have an easier time attracting new converts.
It is this free competition amongst religious sects for converts that ensures stability and tranquillity in the long run.
Smith also points out that laws that prevent religious freedom and seek to preserve the power and belief in a particular religion will, in the long run, only serve to weaken and corrupt that religion, as its leaders and preachers become complacent, disconnected and unpractised in their ability to seek and win over new converts: Hinduism is one of the more open-minded religions when it comes to religious freedom.
It respects the right of everyone to reach God in their own way.
Hindus believe in different ways to preach attainment of God and religion as a philosophy and hence respect all religions as equal.
One of the famous Hindu sayings about religion is: "Truth is one; sages call it by different names."
Judaism includes multiple streams, such as Orthodox, Reform Judaism, Conservative Judaism, Reconstructionist Judaism, Jewish Renewal and Humanistic Judaism.
Israel, viewed as the Jewish homeland, has been evaluated in research by the Pew organization as having "high" government restrictions on religion.
The government recognizes only Orthodox Judaism in certain matters of personal status, and marriages can only be performed by religious authorities.
The government provides the greatest funding to Orthodox Judaism, even though adherents represent a minority of citizens.
Jewish women have been arrested at the Western Wall for praying and singing while wearing religious garments the Orthodox feel should be reserved for men.
Women of the Wall have organized to promote religious freedom at the Wall.
In November 2014, a group of 60 non-Orthodox rabbinical students were told they would not be allowed to pray in the Knesset synagogue because it is reserved for Orthodox.
Rabbi Joel Levy, director of the Conservative Yeshiva in Jerusalem, said that he had submitted the request on behalf of the students and saw their shock when the request was denied.
He noted: "paradoxically, this decision served as an appropriate end to our conversation about religion and state in Israel."
MK Dov Lipman expressed the concern that many Knesset workers are unfamiliar with non-Orthodox and American practices and would view "an egalitarian service in the synagogue as an affront."
According to the Catholic Church in the Vatican II document on religious freedom, Dignitatis Humanae, "the human person has a right to religious freedom", which is described as "immunity from coercion in civil society".
This principle of religious freedom "leaves untouched traditional Catholic doctrine on the moral duty of men and societies toward the true religion."
In addition, this right "is to be recognized in the constitutional law whereby society is governed and thus it is to become a civil right."
Prior to this, Pope Pius IX had written a document called the Syllabus of Errors.
The Syllabus was made up of phrases and paraphrases from earlier papal documents, along with index references to them, and presented as a list of "condemned propositions".
It does not explain why each particular proposition is wrong, but it cites earlier documents to which the reader can refer for the Pope's reasons for saying each proposition is false.
Among the statements included in the Syllabus are: "[It is an error to say that] Every man is free to embrace and profess that religion which, guided by the light of reason, he shall consider true" (15); "[It is an error to say that] In the present day it is no longer expedient that the Catholic religion should be held as the only religion of the State, to the exclusion of all other forms of worship" (77); "[It is an error to say that] Hence it has been wisely decided by law, in some Catholic countries, that persons coming to reside therein shall enjoy the public exercise of their own peculiar worship" (78).
Some Orthodox Christians, especially those living in democratic countries, support religious freedom for all, as evidenced by the position of the Ecumenical Patriarchate.
Many Protestant Christian churches, including some Baptists, Churches of Christ, Seventh-day Adventist Church and main line churches have a commitment to religious freedoms.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints also affirms religious freedom.
However others, such as African scholar Makau Mutua, have argued that Christian insistence on the propagation of their faith to native cultures as an element of religious freedom has resulted in a corresponding denial of religious freedom to native traditions and led to their destruction.
As he states in the book produced by the Oslo Coalition on Freedom of Religion or Belief, "Imperial religions have necessarily violated individual conscience and the communal expressions of Africans and their communities by subverting African religions."
In their book Breaking India, Rajiv Malhotra and Aravindan Neelakandan discussed the "US Church" funding activities in India, such as the popularly advertised campaigns to "save" poor children by feeding, clothing, and educating them, with the book arguing that the funds collected were being used not so much for the purposes indicated to sponsors, but for indoctrination and conversion activities.
They suggest that India is the prime target of a huge enterprise—a "network" of organizations, individuals, and churches—that, they argue, seem intensely devoted to the task of creating a separatist identity, history, and even religion for the vulnerable sections of India.
They suggest that this nexus of players includes not only church groups, government bodies, and related organizations, but also private think tanks and academics.
Joel Spring has written about the Christianization of the Roman Empire: <blockquote>Christianity added new impetus to the expansion of empire.
Increasing the arrogance of the imperial project, Christians insisted that the Gospels and the Church were the only valid sources of religious beliefs.
Imperialists could claim that they were both civilizing the world and spreading the true religion.
By the 5th century, Christianity was thought of as co-extensive with the Imperium romanum.
This meant that to be human, as opposed to being a natural slave, was to be "civilized" and Christian.
Historian Anthony Pagden argues, "just as the civitas; had now become coterminous with Christianity, so to be human—to be, that is, one who was 'civil', and who was able to interpret correctly the law of nature—one had now also to be Christian."
After the fifteenth century, most Western colonialists rationalized the spread of empire with the belief that they were saving a barbaric and pagan world by spreading Christian civilization.< Conversion to Islam is simple (cf.
shahada), but Muslims are forbidden to convert from Islam to another religion.
Certain Muslim-majority countries are known for their restrictions on religious freedom, highly favoring Muslim citizens over non-Muslim citizens.
Other countries having the same restrictive laws tend to be more liberal when imposing them.
Even other Muslim-majority countries are secular and thus do not regulate religious belief.
Some Islamic theologians quote the Qur'an ( and , i.e., Sura Al-Kafirun) to show scriptural support for religious freedom.
, referring to the war against Pagans during the Battle of Badr in Medina, indicates that Muslims are only allowed to fight against those who intend to harm them (right of self-defense) and that if their enemies surrender, they must also stop because God does not like those who transgress limits.
In Bukhari:V9 N316, Jabir ibn 'Abdullah narrated that a Bedouin accepted Islam and then when he got a fever he demanded that Muhammad to cancel his pledge (allow him to renounce Islam).
Muhammad refused to do so.
The Bedouin man repeated his demand once, but Muhammad once again refused.
Then, he (the Bedouin) left Medina.
Muhammad said, "Madinah is like a pair of bellows (furnace): it expels its impurities and brightens and clear its good."
In this narration, there was no evidence demonstrating that Muhammad ordered the execution of the Bedouin for wanting to renounce Islam.
In addition, , which is believed to be God's final revelation to Muhammad, states that Muslims are to fear God and not those who reject Islam, and states that one is accountable only for one's own actions.
Therefore, it postulates that in Islam, in the matters of practising a religion, it does not relate to a worldly punishment, but rather these actions are accountable to God in the afterlife.
Thus, this supports the argument against the execution of apostates in Islam.
However, on the other hand, some Muslims support the practice of executing apostates who leave Islam, as in Bukhari:V4 B52 N260; "The Prophet said, 'If a Muslim discards his religion, kill him.
In Iran, the constitution recognizes four religions whose status is formally protected: Zoroastrianism, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.
The constitution, however, also set the groundwork for the institutionalized persecution of Bahá'ís, who have been subjected to arrests, beatings, executions, confiscation and destruction of property, and the denial of civil rights and liberties, and the denial of access to higher education.
There is no freedom of conscience in Iran, as converting from Islam to any other religion is forbidden.
In Egypt, a 16 December 2006 judgment of the Supreme Administrative Council created a clear demarcation between recognized religions – Islam, Christianity and Judaism – and all other religious beliefs; no other religious affiliation is officially admissible.
The ruling leaves members of other religious communities, including Bahá'ís, without the ability to obtain the necessary government documents to have rights in their country, essentially denying them of all rights of citizenship.
They cannot obtain ID cards, birth certificates, death certificates, marriage or divorce certificates, and passports; they also cannot be employed, educated, treated in public hospitals or vote, among other things.
See Egyptian identification card controversy.
Among the most contentious areas of religious freedom is the right of an individual to change or abandon his or her own religion (apostasy), and the right to evangelize individuals seeking to convince others to make such a change.
Other debates have centered around restricting certain kinds of missionary activity by religions.
Many Islamic states, and others such as China, severely restrict missionary activities of other religions.
Greece, among European countries, has generally looked unfavorably on missionary activities of denominations others than the majority church and proselytizing is constitutionally prohibited.
A different kind of critique of the freedom to propagate religion has come from non-Abrahamic traditions such as the African and Indian.
African scholar Makau Mutua criticizes religious evangelism on the ground of cultural annihilation by what he calls "proselytizing universalist faiths" (Chapter 28: Proselytism and Cultural Integrity, page 652): Some Indian scholars have similarly argued that the right to propagate religion is not culturally or religiously neutral.
In Sri Lanka, there have been debates regarding a bill on religious freedom that seeks to protect indigenous religious traditions from certain kinds of missionary activities.
Debates have also occurred in various states of India regarding similar laws, particularly those that restrict conversions using force, fraud or allurement.
In 2008, Christian Solidarity Worldwide, a Christian human rights non-governmental organisation which specializes in religious freedom, launched an in-depth report on the human rights abuses faced by individuals who leave Islam for another religion.
The report is the product of a year long research project in six different countries.
It calls on Muslim nations, the international community, the UN and the international media to resolutely address the serious violations of human rights suffered by apostates.
In Islam, apostasy is called "ridda" ("turning back") and is considered to be a profound insult to God.
A person born of Muslim parents that rejects Islam is called a "murtad fitri" (natural apostate), and a person that converted to Islam and later rejects the religion is called a "murtad milli" (apostate from the community).
In Islamic law (Sharia), the consensus view is that a male apostate must be put to death unless he suffers from a mental disorder or converted under duress, for example, due to an imminent danger of being killed.
A female apostate must be either executed, according to Shafi'i, Maliki, and Hanbali schools of Sunni Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh), or imprisoned until she reverts to Islam as advocated by the Sunni Hanafi school and by Shi'a scholars.
Ideally, the one performing the execution of an apostate must be an imam.
At the same time, all schools of Islamic jurisprudence agree that any Muslim can kill an apostate without punishment.
However, while almost all scholars agree about the punishment, many disagree on the allowable time to retract the apostasy.
Many scholars push this as far as allowing the apostate till he/she dies.
Thus, practically making the death penalty just a theoretical statement/exercise.
S. A. Rahman, a former Chief Justice of Pakistan, argues that there is no indication of the death penalty for apostasy in the Qur'an.
Religious practice may also conflict with secular law, creating debates on religious freedom.
For instance, even though polygamy is permitted in Islam, it is prohibited in secular law in many countries.
This raises the question of whether prohibiting the practice infringes on the beliefs of certain Muslims.
The US and India, both constitutionally secular nations, have taken two different views of this.
In India, polygamy is permitted, but only for Muslims, under Muslim Personal Law.
In the US, polygamy is prohibited for all.
This was a major source of conflict between the early LDS Church and the United States until the Church amended its position on practicing polygamy.
Similar issues have also arisen in the context of the religious use of psychedelic substances by Native American tribes in the United States as well as other Native practices.
In 1955, Chief Justice of California Roger J. Traynor neatly summarized the American position on how freedom of religion cannot imply freedom from law: "Although freedom of conscience and the freedom to believe are absolute, the freedom to act is not."
But with respect to the religious use of animals within secular law and those acts, the US Supreme Court decision in the case of the Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye v. City of Hialeah in 1993 upheld the right of Santeria adherents to practice ritual animal sacrifice, with Justice Anthony Kennedy stating in the decision: "religious beliefs need not be acceptable, logical, consistent or comprehensible to others in order to merit First Amendment protection" (quoted by Justice Kennedy from the opinion by Justice Burger in Thomas v. Review Board of the Indiana Employment Security Division ).
In 2015, Kim Davis, a Kentucky county clerk, refused to abide by the Supreme Court decision in Obergefell v. Hodges legalizing same-sex marriage in the United States.
When she refused to issue marriage licenses, she became embroiled in the Miller v. Davis lawsuit.
Her actions caused attorney and author Roberta Kaplan to state that "Kim Davis is the clearest example of someone who wants to use a religious liberty argument to discriminate."
The law in Germany provides the term of "religious majority" (Religiöse Mündigkeit) with a minimum age for minors to follow their own religious beliefs even if their parents don't share those or don't approve.
Children 14 and older have the unrestricted right to enter or exit any religious community.
Children 12 and older cannot be compelled to change to a different belief.
Children 10 and older have to be heard before their parents change their religious upbringing to a different belief.
There are similar laws in Austria and in Switzerland.
27 October is International Religious Freedom Day, in commemoration of the execution of the Boston martyrs, a group of Quakers executed by the Puritans on Boston Common for their religious beliefs under the legislature of the Massachusetts Bay Colony between 1659–1661.
The US proclaimed 16 January Religious Freedom Day.
In its 2011 annual report, the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom designated fourteen nations as "countries of particular concern".
The commission chairman commented that these are nations whose conduct marks them as the world's worst religious freedom violators and human rights abusers.
The fourteen nations designated were Burma, China, Egypt, Eritrea, Iran, Iraq, Nigeria, North Korea, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Vietnam.
Other nations on the commission's watchlist include Afghanistan, Belarus, Cuba, India, Indonesia, Laos, Russia, Somalia, Tajikistan, Turkey, and Venezuela.^ ^ <br /> ^ </ref> There are concerns about the restrictions on public religious dress in some European countries (including the Hijab, Kippah, and Christian cross).
Article 18 of the UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights limits restrictions on freedom to manifest one's religion or beliefs to those necessary to protect public safety, order, health, or morals or the fundamental rights and freedoms of others.
Freedom of religion as a legal concept is related to, but not identical with, religious toleration, separation of church and state, or secular state (laïcité).
The Pew Research Center has performed studies on international religious freedom between 2009 and 2015, compiling global data from 16 governmental and non-governmental organizations–including the United Nations, the United States State Department, and Human Rights Watch–and representing over 99.5 percent of the world's population.
In 2009, nearly 70 percent of the world's population lived in countries classified as having heavy restrictions on freedom of religion.
This concerns restrictions on religion originating from government prohibitions on free speech and religious expression as well as social hostilities undertaken by private individuals, organisations and social groups.
Social hostilities were classified by the level of communal violence and religion-related terrorism.
While most countries provided for the protection of religious freedom in their constitutions or laws, only a quarter of those countries were found to fully respect these legal rights in practice.
In 75 countries governments limit the efforts of religious groups to proselytise and in 178 countries religious groups must register with the government.
In 2013, Pew classified 30% of countries as having restrictions that tend to target religious minorities, and 61% of countries have social hostilities that tend to target religious minorities.
The countries in North and South America reportedly had some of the lowest levels of government and social restrictions on religion, while The Middle East and North Africa were the regions with the highest.
Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Iran were the countries that top the list of countries with the overall highest levels of restriction on religion.
Topping the Pew government restrictions index were Saudi Arabia, Iran, Uzbekistan, China, Egypt, Burma, Maldives, Eritrea, Malaysia and Brunei.
Of the world's 25 most populous countries, Iran, Egypt, Indonesia and Pakistan had the most restrictions, while Brazil, Japan, Italy, South Africa, the UK, and the US had some of the lowest levels, as measured by Pew.
Vietnam and China were classified as having high government restrictions on religion but were in the moderate or low range when it came to social hostilities.
Nigeria, Bangladesh and India were high in social hostilities but moderate in terms of government actions.
Restrictions on religion across the world increased between mid-2009 and mid-2010, according to a 2012 study by the Pew Research Center.
Restrictions in each of the five major regions of the world increased&mdash;including in the Americas and sub-Saharan Africa, the two regions where overall restrictions previously had been declining.
In 2010, Egypt, Nigeria, the Palestinian territories, Russia, and Yemen were added to the "very high" category of social hostilities.
The five highest social hostility scores were for Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka, Iraq, and Bangladesh.
In 2015, Pew published that social hostilities declined in 2013, but the harassment of Jews increased.
In the study of religion, orthopraxy is correct conduct, both ethical and liturgical, as opposed to faith or grace etc.
This contrasts with orthodoxy, which emphasizes correct belief, and ritualism, the use of rituals.
The word is a neoclassical compound— (orthopraxia) meaning 'correct practice'.
While orthodoxies make use of codified beliefs, in the form of creeds, and ritualism more narrowly centers on the strict adherence to prescribed rites or rituals, orthopraxy is focused on issues of family, cultural integrity, the transmission of tradition, sacrificial offerings, concerns of purity, ethical systems, and the enforcement thereof.
Typically, traditional or folk religions (paganism, animism) are more concerned with orthopraxy than orthodoxy, and some argue that equating the term "faith" with "religion" presents a Christian-biased notion of what the primary characteristic of religion is.
In the case of Hinduism orthopraxy and ritualism are mixed to the point that they become a single identity.
From the Greek orthos "straight" + praxis "action", first used in 1851 There are two versions of the term: "orthopraxis" and "orthopraxy".
"Orthopraxy" is the older and more common term, and is parallel to "orthodoxy".
Though traditionally Christianity is seen as primarily orthodoxical (as in the Nicene Creed's "I believe in ..."), some Christian denominations and leaders today, from Roman Catholic to Evangelical Christians, have started to describe their religions as both orthodoxical and orthopraxic.
The premise is "correct belief" compels "correct action," and incorrect action is caused by incorrect beliefs.
Taking this combination of "correct belief" and "correct action" a step further, Prosperity theology, found in charismatic and Pentecostal traditions, teaches correct religious belief and behavior receives material reward and physical healing, in addition to being a necessary component for accepting God's Grace.
Prosperity theology is a concept known as reciprocity when discussing traditional or ethnic religions such as that in Ancient Greece, but is limited to correct behavior over any one theological idea.
The purpose of Divine law is disputed among Christian denominations.
A minority are Torah-observant, sometimes called Jewish Christians, and at the other extreme are antinomistic and anarchistic views.
In between, most Christians believe that some or all of the Ten Commandments are still binding or have been reinstituted in the Law of Christ.
For the teachings of Jesus on the subject, see Ministry of Jesus – Teachings, Sermon on the Mount, and Counsels of perfection.
Orthopraxis would include attendance of church services which are designed to benefit the practitioner of the Eastern Orthodox faith.
It refers to accepted religious practices and may include both ritual practices as well as interpersonal acts.
The Orthopraxy ties into the concept of Phronema and is meant to work together toward the goal of theosis.
The Jewish religion attaches primary importance to the practice of the mitzvot, and that each act of daily life comply with the ethical and ritual teachings of the Torah.
However, these gestures are intended to be motivated by the system of values and ethics of which they are a part, so that orthodoxy is not seen as simply a way of thinking according to established dogmas.
Moreover, some laws of the Torah require the acceptance of certain basic beliefs, such as the first and second Positive commandments in Maimonides' Sefer Hamitzvot, which mandate the belief in God and His indivisible unity, or the recitation of the Shema.
Maimonides' codification of Jewish law even contains a section entitled Yesodei HaTorah which delineates the required beliefs of Judaism.
Thus, it is not accurate to describe Judaism solely in orthopraxic terms.
The Five Pillars of Islam fundamental to Sunnis prescribe Islamic practice, while Shahadah (profession of faith) defines Islamic belief.
Generally stresses Orthopraxy over Orthodoxy, but since the practice is held to come from doctrine, this is essentially orthodoxy applied to practice.
In the case of Hinduism orthopraxy and ritualism are conflated.
Emphasis on ritual vs. personal salvation (moksha) was a major division in classical Hindu philosophy, epitomized by Purva Mimamsa vs. Uttara Mimamsa (Vedanta).
Ritual (puja) continues to play a central role in contemporary Hinduism, but the enormous complexity of ancient ritual (yajna) only survives in a tiny minority of Shrauta practitioners.
Even Hindus who diligently practice a subset of prescribed rituals are called orthoprax, to contrast them with other Hindus who insist on the importance of correct belief or understanding.
The correctness of one's interpretation of the scripture is then considered less important than following traditions.
For example, Srinivasa Ramanujan was a well-known example of an orthoprax Hindu.
In terms of "proper conduct" and other ethical precepts within the Hindu framework, the core belief involves the divinity of each individual soul (jivatma).
Each person harbors this "indwelling God (divinity)"; thus, conduct which unifies society and facilitates progress is emphasized.
Self-centered existence is discouraged as a result of this jivatma concept.
Interestingly, it's the Uttara Mimamsa philosophical school which seems to explicate this concept so eloquently.
Moreover, within the context of Uttara Mimamsa the role of puja (ritual) also involves bringing the individual jivatma closer to the Paramatma (the Transcendent Divinity or God).
Individuals who have attained this merging then become the spiritual guides to the community.
Later developments within the Hindu religious and philosophic tradition thus try to unify these concepts of ritual, proper conduct, and personal salvation instead of leaving them in mutually conflicting terms.
The movement inspired by Pandurang Shastri Athavale termed Swadhyaya seems to be one manifestation of this syncretism.
However, other movements within the contemporary Hindu scene are also moving towards this union of external activity and internal development.
Jain orthopraxy is based on two factors: Jain siddhanta (teachings of the Tirthankara) and kriya (practices prevalent at the time of the Tirthankaras).
According to Jains, the Tirthankaras based their teachings and philosophy after knowing the realities on this universe (like dravya and tattva).
Based on these realities, they propounded true and eternal principles like ahimsa, truth, karma etc.
that govern the universe.
Jain rituals were codified on the basis of these principles to give effect to the teachings of the Tirthankaras.
British Traditional Wicca is highly orthopraxic, with "traditions" (as denominations in Wicca are called) being precisely that—defined by what is traditionally done, rather than shared beliefs.
Other Neopagans may or may not share this quality, as noted by James R. Lewis, who draws a distinction between "Religious Neo-Pagans" and "God/dess Celebrants."
Lewis states the majority of the Neopagan movement is strongly opposed to Religionist traditions that incorporate any form of orthopraxy or orthodoxy.
In fact, many Neopagan organizations, when discussing orthopraxy, limit themselves solely to ritualism.
Polytheistic Reconstructionism, such as Hellenismos, provides a stark contrast to popular Neopaganism, being more conservative in nature.
These movements seek to revive traditional pre-Christian religions adapted to the modern world, but with an adherence to the values and ethical systems of the ancient cultures, loyalty and reverence toward specific pantheons, and by promoting traditional interpersonal obligations associated with the family, community, and society.
Reconstructionist religions make full use of orthopraxy, defining their practices as a lifestyle, and identifying "correct action" as living life in accord with specific ideals and principles, rather than focusing solely on ritual or promoting a single cosmology, metaphysical idea, or theological theory as absolute truth.
The Constitution and the law provide for freedom of religion in Kyrgyzstan, and the Government generally respected this right in practice; however, the Government restricted the activities of radical Islamic groups that it considered threats to stability and security and hampered or refused the registration of some Christian churches.
The Constitution provides for the separation of religion and state, and it prohibits discrimination based on religion or religious beliefs.
The Government did not officially support any religion; however, a May 6, 2006 decree recognized Islam and Russian Orthodoxy as traditional religious groups.
There was no change in the status of respect for religious freedom during the period covered by this report.
The Government continued to monitor and restrict Islamist groups that it considered to be threats to security.
Some Christian groups continued to face delays in registration.
The State Agency for Religious Affairs (SARA), formerly called the State Commission on Religious Affairs (SCRA), is responsible for promoting religious tolerance, protecting freedom of conscience, and overseeing laws on religion.
All religious organizations, including schools, must apply for approval of registration from SARA.
Although most religious groups and sects operated with little interference from the Government or each other, there were several cases of societal abuse based on religious beliefs and practices.
There was an increase in tensions between Muslims and former Muslims who had converted to other religious groups.
In one case, a mob upset at a Baptist pastor's conversions of Muslims to Christianity publicly beat the pastor and burned his Bibles and religious literature (see section 3).
The country has an area of , and a population of 5.2 million.
Data from the National Statistics Committee indicated the following ethnic breakdown: Kyrgyz, 67 percent; Uzbeks, 14.2 percent; Russians, 10.3 percent; Dungans (ethnic Chinese Muslims), 1.1 percent; Uighurs (ethnic Turkic Muslims), 1 percent; and other ethnicities, 6 percent.
Islam is the most widely held faith.
Official sources estimated that 80 percent of the population is Muslim.
Almost all the Muslims are Sunni; there are few Shi'a in the country (approximately one thousand).
There are also a few Ahmadiyya Muslims, though unrecognised by the country.
According to SARA, as of May 2007 there were 1,650 mosques, of which 1,623 were registered.
There also were seven institutes for higher Islamic teaching.
According to recent official estimates, 11 percent of the population is Russian Orthodox, although some experts believe the figure could be as low as 8 percent.
The country has 44 Russian Orthodox churches, 1 Russian Orthodox monastery for women, and 1 parochial school.
Other religious groups account for a very small percentage of the population.
The Seventh-day Adventist Church operates 30 churches throughout the country.
The Roman Catholics hold services in three churches, located in Jalalabad, Talas, and Bishkek.
The small Jewish community operates one synagogue in Bishkek, and it organizes internal cultural studies and humanitarian services, chiefly food assistance for the elderly and persons with disabilities regardless of faith.
One Buddhist temple serves the small Buddhist community.
There are 12 registered Baha'i houses of worship.
In addition, there are 240 registered Protestant houses of worship.
The Church of Jesus Christ is the country's largest Protestant church with approximately 10 affiliates and an estimated 11 thousand members, of whom approximately 40 percent are ethnic Kyrgyz.
Other Protestant congregations include Baptists, Pentecostals, Lutherans, nondenominational Protestants, Presbyterians, and Charismatics.
There also are syncretistic religious practices.
There is no official estimate of the number of atheists.
Islam is practiced widely throughout the country in both urban and rural areas.
Russian Orthodoxy typically is concentrated in cities with a larger ethnic Russian population.
Other religious groups more commonly practice in the cities where their smaller communities tend to be concentrated.
There is a correlation between ethnicity and religion; ethnic Kyrgyz are primarily Muslims, while ethnic Russians usually belong to either the Russian Orthodox Church or one of the Protestant denominations.
However, some Christian pastors noted that the number of ethnic Kyrgyz converts to Christianity grew significantly during the year covered by this report.
While there are no data available on active participation in formal religious services, a significant number of Muslims and Russian Orthodox adherents appear to be nominal believers and do not practice their faith actively.
Religious practice in the south of the country is more traditional and devout than in other regions.
Missionary groups operate freely in the country.
SARA has registered missionaries from all over the world representing an estimated 20 religious groups and denominations.
According to SARA, since 1996 it has registered 1,133 missionaries, of whom 263 were Muslim and the rest represented other, mostly Christian, religious groups.
During the period covered by this report, there were 111 registered missionaries, of whom 80 were Christian and 31 were Muslim.
Missionaries disseminating dogma inconsistent with the traditional customs of local Muslims are subject to expulsion.
According to SARA, of the approximately 20 missionaries expelled since 1991, all represented various "totalitarian sects," groups the SCRA considered incompatible with the standard principles of traditional world religious groups.
The Constitution and the law provide for freedom of religion; however, the Government restricted the activities of radical Islamic groups it considered to be threats to security.
The Constitution provides for the separation of religion and state.
The new Constitution, adopted on December 30, 2006, defines the country as a sovereign, unitary, democratic social state based on the rule of law; the previous Constitution had also defined the country as "secular."
A May 6, 2006 decree recognized Islam and Russian Orthodoxy as "traditional religious groups."
Article 5 of the "Law On Religious Freedom and Religious Organizations" affirms that "the State does not interfere with the activity of religious organizations that adhere to established laws; does not allow for establishing advantages or restrictions of one religion over another; does not finance the activity of religious organizations and activity of propagating atheism."
Article 8 of the Constitution prohibits the formation of political parties on religious and ethnic grounds, as well as activities of religious organizations that jeopardize the state, constitutional system, or national security.
Article 85 of the Constitution provides the Constitutional Court with the authority to determine the constitutionality of a religious organization's activities.
The Government recognizes two Muslim holy days (Kurman Ait or Eid al-Adha, and Orozo Ait or Eid al-Fitr) and one Russian Orthodox holy day (Orthodox Christmas) as national holidays.
The President and the Government send greetings to Muslims and Orthodox adherents on their major holy days, and the greetings are printed in the mass media.
Established in 1993, the Muftiate (or Spiritual Administration of Muslims of Kyrgyzstan-SAMK) is the highest Islamic managing body in the country.
The Muftiate oversees all Islamic entities, including institutes and madrassahs, mosques, and Islamic organizations.
The Mufti is the official head of the Muftiate and is elected by the Council of Ulemas, which consists of 30 Islamic clerics and scholars.
A Muftiate-established commission reviews and standardizes Islamic educational literature printed and distributed in the country and reviews new books on Islamic themes prior to publication.
The Muftiate has the authority to ban publications that do not meet the established standards, an initiative it started and the Government supports.
SARA is responsible under the law for promoting religious tolerance, protecting freedom of conscience, and overseeing the application of laws on religion.
The President appoints the Director, and the Prime Minister appoints the deputies of the agency.
In June 2006 SARA moved its offices to the city of Osh in the south to be closer to the more religious part of the country.
A 1997 presidential decree requires the registration of all religious organizations with the Ministry of Justice (MOJ), following approval from SARA.
SARA can deny or postpone the certification of a particular religious group if SARA believes the proposed activities of that group are not religious in character.
Unregistered religious organizations are prohibited from actions such as renting space and holding religious services, although many hold regular services without government interference.
Organizations applying for registration must have at least 10 members who are adult citizens and must submit an application form, organizational charter, minutes of an institutional meeting, and a list of founding members to SARA for review.
SARA then provides a recommendation to the MOJ for approval or rejection of the registration application.
Recommendation for rejection occurs when a religious organization does not comply with the law or is a threat to national security, social stability, interethnic and interdenominational harmony, public order, health, or morality.
An applicant whose registration is denied may reapply and may appeal to the courts.
The registration process with SARA is often cumbersome, taking a month to several years for completion.
Each congregation must register separately.
If approved, a religious organization then must complete the registration process with the MOJ to obtain status as a legal entity, which is necessary to own property, open bank accounts, and otherwise engage in contractual activities.
If a religious organization engages in commercial activity, it is required to pay taxes.
In practice the MOJ has never registered a religious organization without prior approval by SARA.
SARA reported that its staff continued to travel around the country to help unregistered religious entities prepare applications for registration.
According to SARA, there were 2,113 registered religious entities, including mosques, churches, foundations, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) of a religious nature, and religious educational institutions.
SARA identified 1,742 Islamic entities, 46 entities of the Russian Orthodox Church, and 304 other "nontraditional" houses of worship, including 2 Russian churches of "Old Belief," 3 Catholic churches, 1 synagogue, 1 Buddhist temple, and 297 Protestant churches (48 Baptist, 21 Lutheran, 49 Pentecostal, 30 Adventist, 35 Presbyterian, 43 "Charismatic," 49 Jehovah's Witnesses, and 22 "other" Protestant churches).
According to SARA, there are 21 "other religious entities" including 12 Baha'i centers, 21 religious centers of "other foreign confessions," 13 religious schools, and 7 religious foundations and unions.
Members of registered religious groups may fulfill alternative military service; it was reported in the press in 2005 that approximately three thousand persons apply annually.
Missionaries of various religious groups operate freely, although they are required to register.
Since 1996 SARA has registered more than 1,133 foreign citizens as religious missionaries.
All religious entities founded by a foreigner must re-register each year with SARA, although the process is much less cumbersome than the initial registration.
Missionaries are only required to register with SARA once.
The 1997 Law on Religious Freedom and Religious Organizations forbids the teaching of religion (or atheism) in public schools.
In 2001 the Government instructed the SCRA to draw up programs for training clergy and to prepare methodologies for teaching about religious groups in public schools.
These instructions came in response to concerns about the spread of Wahhabism and what the Government considered unconventional religious sects.
The SCRA turned to a number of religious organizations for their ideas on introducing religious education; their reaction generally was negative, as they preferred to retain responsibility for the religious education of their adherents.
SARA indicated that it was still developing a curriculum to teach about religious groups, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and several academic institutions.
An August 9, 2006 press report indicated that the Government planned to introduce religious education into the secondary school curriculum; however, there had been no implementation of this plan by the end of the reporting period.
Under the auspices of the Muftiate, volunteers called Davatchi visited villages in the south to teach traditional Islamic values.
The Islamic University oversees all Islamic schools, including madrassahs, to develop a standardized curriculum and curb the spread of extremist religious teaching.
This program continued during the reporting period.
Since 2001 the Government has worked with representatives of various religious groups and NGOs on a draft law "On Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations," ostensibly in response to concerns about terrorism and other illegal activities committed by groups disguised as religious organizations.
In May 2006, a group of parliamentary deputies proposed a different draft bill.
Work on the new draft bill continued at the end of the reporting period.
The August 2005 law on "Countering Extremist Activity" seeks to "halt extremist activities by religious organizations or groups."
Law enforcement officials have acted under this law to detain members of banned organizations, such as Hizb-ut Tahrir (HT), for distributing leaflets and other materials deemed to be of an extremist nature.
The Government continued to express concern publicly about groups that it viewed as extremist because of either radical religious or political agendas.
The Government was particularly concerned about the threat of political Islam, whose followers (Islamists) it labels "Wahhabists."
The Government perceives radical Islamists to be a threat to national stability, particularly in the south, and fears that they seek to overthrow the government and establish an Islamic theocracy.
Armed incursions in 1999 and 2000 by members of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU), a terrorist organization, and more recent incursions by unidentified terrorists in May 2006 increased the Government's concern regarding political Islam and the actions of militant Islamic groups.
In 2003 the Supreme Court sustained the ban on four political organizations, imposed because of extremism and alleged ties to international terrorist organizations: Hizb ut-Tahrir (HT), the Islamic Party of Turkestan, the Organization for Freeing Eastern Turkestan, and the Eastern Turkestan Islamic Party.
Several religious groups had difficulties registering.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), which initially applied for registration with SARA in August 2004, was still not registered at the end of the reporting period.
Leaders of the Hare Krishna temple in Bishkek, after attempting unsuccessfully to register several times in the last 2 years, planned to resubmit the application for registration once the location of their new temple was confirmed.
According to the Union of Baptist Churches of Kyrgyzstan, several churches in Tash-Kumyr, At-Bashi, Osh, and Jalalabad continue to wait for registration, despite numerous meetings with SARA officials and submissions of applications.
Church leaders attributed previous delays to the submission of improper documentation and information during the application process.
On December 1, 2006, SARA refused registration of the Baptist Church in Kara-Kulja, citing the local population's petition to SARA to prevent the church from staying open (see section 3).
According to church officials, the local community and government officials attempted to pressure Dzhanybek Zhakipov, the pastor of the Pentecostal Church of Jesus Christ in Jalalabad, to close down his church in July 2006.
Local law enforcement officials reportedly "tormented" the pastor after receiving complaints by relatives of Christian converts who belonged to his church.
SARA officials showed the pastor a petition with 500 signatures requesting that the church be shut down.
After court proceedings, a Jalalabad judge ordered SARA to register the church.
The church continued to operate, and there were no reports of further pressure.
The Unification Church remained active, despite the SCRA suspension of its activities in 2003 for registration irregularities, a ruling upheld in an appeal to the Bishkek City Court.
Although the Government monitored, including by filming, Protestant and Muslim religious groups in the past, there were no reports of surveillance during the period covered by this report.
There were unconfirmed reports that law enforcement officials monitored the activities of missionaries.
A Baptist pastor reported several cases of their foreign missionaries being denied visas or facing visa delays when attempting to visit the country.
No missionaries were expelled, asked to leave the country, or denied registration during the reporting period.
On February 21, 2007, news agency Ferghana.ru reported that school administrators and teachers at the Kyzyljar School of the Jalalabad Oblast prohibited two female students from attending class because the students refused to remove their hijabs.
A similar incident occurred in a neighboring village.
Parents at both schools protested the prohibition of hijabs but the dispute continued as of the end of the reporting period.
In December 2005 the Jalalabad city education department banned the wearing of hijabs in that city's schools.
Several parents protested the move and demanded that the ban be lifted.
SARA's stated position was that students, who for religious reasons choose to wear clothing that would indicate adherence to a particular religion, may attend religious schools.
According to news agency RFE/RL, Mutakalim, a Muslim women's NGO, requested a change in the legislation that bans females from wearing Islamic headscarves in official passport photos.
The Government defended the current law as being a national security measure and rejected a petition from the group for lacking a sufficient number of signatures.
On March 10, 2007, State National Safety Committee (GKNB) officers in Jalalabad seized a warehouse containing Bibles owned by a Baptist church.
The authorities told church administrators that the seizure was for the purpose of "expert examination."
The GKNB refused to release the warehouse as of the end of the reporting period.
On August 6, 2006, the special forces of the National Security Service (SNB) shot and killed three persons, including Mukhammadrafiq Kamalov, imam of the largest mosque in Kara-Suu.
Immediately following the incident, government officials stated that the three were affiliated with the banned Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and were killed in the course of an antiterrorism operation.
Kamalov's family and observers, including the ombudsman for human rights, denied security officials' allegations about the possible involvement of the imam in religious extremist groups.
Security officials later conceded that Kamalov might not have been part of the group but instead may have been kidnapped by the suspected terrorists and thus killed accidentally in the raid.
On May 24, 2006, security forces had detained Kamalov and searched his house on suspicion of his involvement in HT activities.
On several occasions during the period covered by this report, police arrested or fined members of the Islamic political organization HT for distributing leaflets.
On February 21, 2007, local media reported that police detained a resident of Osh after discovering HT booklets and a hand grenade in his home.
As of the end of the reporting period, the investigation continued.
Of the 12 men arrested in April 2006 for alleged links to a November 2004 grenade incident blamed on Islamic extremists, 4 remained in custody.
It was unclear whether their detention was linked to their religious beliefs or practice.
There were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country.
There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.
In 2006 the Church of Jesus Christ signed a 49-year lease for land upon which its church is located after resolving favorably an ongoing dispute with the Bishkek mayor's office.
There was no evidence of widespread societal discrimination or violence against members of different religious groups; however, there was evidence of periodic tension in rural areas between conservative Muslims and foreign Christian missionaries and individuals from traditionally Muslim ethnic groups who had converted to other religious groups.
There were several reports that tensions between Muslims and Muslim converts continued.
Both Muslim and Russian Orthodox spiritual leaders criticized the proselytizing activities of nontraditional Christian groups.
Several media outlets reported incidents of aggression against Baptist Pastor Zulumbek Sarygulov in Osh Oblast.
According to Forum 18, the first incident occurred on July 28, 2006 when a crowd of 80 local Muslims broke into the Karakulja village Baptist Church in the Osh Oblast.
The mob physically abused the pastor and burned his Bibles and other religious materials.
Church leaders reported that local police on the scene made no efforts to stop the attack.
Soon after the event, local police opened a criminal investigation, questioning Sarygulov and others for detailed accounts of the incident.
After the initial inquiries, there were no further reports from the local authorities regarding developments in the investigation.
In a second incident on November 12, 2006, perpetrators threw Molotov cocktails at Sarygulov's church facilities, but church staff quickly extinguished the flames, and the fire caused little damage.
Local authorities investigated the event but made no arrests.
The investigation continued as of the end of the reporting period.
On December 1, 2006, according to Forum 18, SARA notified Aleksandr Nikitin, pastor of the Baptist church in Osh and regional coordinator for Baptist churches in the south, that the Karakulja church had been officially denied registration on the grounds that it operated for several years without having official registration.
On March 5, 2007, a law enforcement official showed Forum 18 reporters a letter from SARA requesting that the police end the Karakulja Baptist church activities.
The authorities took no further action as of the end of the reporting period.
On February 15, 2007, independently operated Channel 5 TV broadcast a program that portrayed the Church of Jesus Christ as being possibly associated with devil worshipers.
The pastor provided a rebuttal to the program, but producers never aired it.
Channel 5 producers aired opinions in support of the program's message presented by representatives of the "traditional religious groups" (Islam and Russian Orthodoxy).
Several Protestant pastors complained of difficulties interring deceased parishioners who converted from Islam to Christianity.
Local Islamic and community leaders opposed the burial of converts in Islamic cemeteries.
Officially, the cemetery plots are under government control, but usually local Islamic figures oversee them.
The Government resolved the problem by allotting new plots of land for Protestant cemeteries.
However, the scarcity of such cemeteries forces Christians to travel great distances to bury their deceased.
There were no acts of violence, harassment, or vandalism reported against Jews, community institutions, schools, synagogues, or cemeteries during the reporting period.
Nepal is a secular state under the Interim Constitution, which was promulgated on January 15, 2007.
The Interim Constitution provides for freedom to practice one's religion.
The Interim Constitution also specifically denies the right to convert another person.
The now-defunct constitution of 1990, which was in effect until January 15, 2007, described the country as a "Hindu Kingdom," although it did not establish Hinduism as the state religion.
The Government generally did not interfere with the practice of other religious groups, and religious tolerance was broadly observed; however, there were some restrictions.
The Government took positive preliminary steps with respect to religious freedom during the period covered by this report, and government policy contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
The Interim Parliament, through the Interim Constitution, officially declared the country a secular state in January 2007; however, no laws specifically affecting freedom of religion were changed.
Nonetheless, many believed that the declaration made it easier to practice their religion freely.
Adherents of the country's many religious groups generally coexisted peacefully and respected places of worship, although there were reports of societal abuses and discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Those who converted to another religious group at times faced violence and occasionally were ostracized socially but generally did not fear to admit their affiliations in public.
But overall, Nepal is viewed as a religiously harmonious place for its state of development.
The country has an area of and a population of 28 million.
Hinduism is reported to be the religion of 81.34% of the population followed by Buddhism (9.04%), Islam(4.38%), Kirat (3.04%), Christianity (1.41%) practitioners of Kirant (an indigenous animist religion), 0.1 percent; and Christians, 0.6 percent.
There are adherents to many other religious groups, whose proportion is small.
According to the chairman of the Madrassah Islamiyah Association, there are almost 2,500 madrassahs.
Twenty thousand Tibetan Buddhist refugees reside in the country.
The Interim Constitution provides for freedom of religion and permits the practice of all religious groups; however, there are some restrictions.
The Interim Parliament declared the country a secular state in the Interim Constitution in January 2007.
The previous constitution described the country as a "Hindu Kingdom," although it did not establish Hinduism as the state religion.
Article 23 of the Interim Constitution protects the rights of all religious groups by guaranteeing the individual the right "to profess and practice his/her own religion as handed down to him/her from ancient times having due regard to traditional practices."
It also states "no person shall be entitled to convert another person from one religion to another and shall not take actions or behave in a way that would create disturbance in another's religion."
The Interim Constitution maintains the stipulation from the 1990 constitution that no one can be discriminated against based on caste.
In 2002 the previous government constituted a National Dalit Commission charged with protecting and promoting Dalit (formerly called "untouchable") rights and ensuring active participation of the Dalit community in the development of the country.
Before the People's Movement in April 2006, which led to removal of the King and his government, the Commission devised legal and policy arrangements for Dalit rights, made recommendations to implement international conventions to which the country is a party, monitored and coordinated non-governmental organizations (NGOs) on efforts to uplift Dalits, and launched programs on social awareness to end social discrimination and untouchability.
After the success of the People's Movement, many members of the Commission were accused of being royalist and resigned, and the Commission was unable to function.
The Interim Government nominated 16 members to the Commission on June 3, 2007.
There are no specific laws favoring the Hindu majority, nor does the Government control the expression of Hinduism.
Although there were no registration requirements for religious groups, there were legal registration requirements for NGOs.
Organizations had been prohibited from registering if their names contained religious words.
However, this began to change in April 2007 when the Government allowed the registration of an organization with the word "Bible" in its title.
Christian, Muslim, and Jewish religious organizations claimed that, unless registered, such organizations were restricted from owning land, an important step for establishing churches, mosques, synagogues, or burial sites.
An organization that provides religious services and kosher foods to Jewish adherents (generally tourists) complained that the organization was not able to legally register as a religious organization and its workers had to enter the country on business visas.
There are officially no foreign missionaries; however, for decades dozens of Christian missionary hospitals, welfare organizations, and schools have operated in the country.
These organizations did not proselytize, and otherwise operated freely.
Missionary schools were among the most respected institutions of secondary education; many members of the governing and business elite graduated from Jesuit high schools.
Foreign workers in the missionary hospitals and schools entered the country with visas designating them as technical workers for local or international NGOs sponsoring the hospitals and schools.
The Government enforced these immigration laws; if foreign workers were found to proselytize, they were expelled from the country.
There were no expulsions during the reporting period.
Many foreign Christian organizations had direct ties to local churches and sponsored pastors for religious training abroad.
Some holy days, most of them Hindu, were recognized as national holidays.
These were Mahashivaratri, Buddha Jayanti, Falgun Purnima, Krishna Asthami, Dasain, and Tihar.
Although public schools did not teach religion, most had a statue of Saraswoti, the Hindu goddess of learning, on their grounds.
Many began the day with a Hindu prayer to the goddess.
The Government had no formal policy on interfaith understanding.
A local NGO, the Interreligious Council of Nepal, consisting of representatives of the Hindu, Buddhist, Muslim, Christian, and Baha'i faiths, was active in promoting peace in the country.
Tibetan Buddhists faced various restrictions on their celebrations.
Local authorities generally restricted celebration of Tibetan religious festivals to private property.
Police in Kathmandu prohibited Tibetans celebrating the New Year from carrying pictures of the Dalai Lama around an important Buddhist temple as part of religious ceremonies.
The Government also restricted all other non-religious local Tibetan celebrations (Tibetan New Year, the Dalai Lama's birthday, and Democracy Day) to private property.
On March 10, 2007, however, the Tibetan community was allowed to march freely in the street, demanding "freedom and justice for Tibet."
During the reporting period, the Government revoked the legally obtained registration of a welfare office to look after Tibetan refugees (a lawsuit was pending at the end of the reporting period) and did not allow the registration of an office to represent the Dalai Lama.
The welfare office previously looked after more than 20,000 Tibetan refugees who left their homeland after the Dalai Lama fled Tibet in 1959.
The law prohibits converting others and proselytizing; these activities are punishable by fines, imprisonment, or, for foreigners, expulsion.
However, personal conversion is allowed.
Some Christian and Muslim groups were concerned that the ban on proselytizing limited the expression of non-Hindu religious belief.
NGOs or individuals were allowed to file reports that individuals or organizations were proselytizing, and the Government investigated these reports.
There were no incidents of punishment for conversion or proselytism during the reporting period.
Madrassahs, but not mosques, are required to register with local district administration offices (part of the Home Ministry) and supply information about their funding sources to operate; they receive no government funding.
Some Muslim leaders criticized the move as discriminatory; however, the registration requirement has not been enforced.
Muslims were not restricted from participating in the Hajj, although the Government did not subsidize the pilgrimage.
The Constitution prohibits discrimination on the basis of caste; however, the caste system strongly influences society.
While the Government has stressed that caste-based discrimination is illegal and temple access for "lower castes" has improved in some areas, caste discrimination was frequently practiced at Hindu temples, where Dalits were forbidden from entering by some Hindu priests.
There were no restrictions on the selling or possession of religious literature.
Civil servants may take off religious holidays and celebrate them on private property without government interference.
There were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees.
There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.
[Edit: The meaning of this sentence is unclear.]
There have been frequent reports alleging that various missionaries and foreign Christian organizations have lured poor people to change their religion by offering them jobs and money.
No proof for these allegations has ever been brought forward, however; and such charges have long been leveled against Christians in south Asia.
The charges have sometimes brought tensions in societies, where the newly converted are claimed to have been brainwashed.
During the Nepalese Civil War, Maoist insurgents restricted religious freedom in parts of the country.
There were reports of Maoists enforcing a "people's calendar" in schools that did not allow for religious holidays.
Maoists sometimes demanded the use of religious facilities for their political organizations and courts.
Christian organizations reported several cases where Maoists extorted cash from churches.
In September 2004 Maoist threats prompted the temporary closing of 21 churches in Sankhuwasabha District.
In October 2006 local leaders closed the Christian Kashi Gaun Church in Kashi village, Gorkha in response to pressure from local religious Lamas who were concerned that people would abandon their traditional religious beliefs.
Members of the Nepal Interreligious Council visited Gorkha and met with religious and district leaders, and the government agreed to reopen the church in February 2007.
There were scattered reports of Maoist insurgents attacking Hindu temples and harassing Hindu priests.
On August 21, 2006, a group of Maoists disrupted a religious function organized by a pro-Hindu organization in Bhairahawa, accusing the group of attempting to reestablish the monarchy.
On September 21, 2005, a group of armed Maoists attacked and vandalized Ramchandra Temple in Muga village of Dhankuta District.
Adherents of the country's many religious groups generally coexisted peacefully and respected places of worship.
Most Hindus respected the many Buddhist shrines located throughout the country; Buddhists accorded Hindu shrines the same respect.
Buddha's birthplace is an important pilgrimage site, and his birthday is a national holiday.
However, some Christian groups reported that Hindu extremism increased in recent years, especially since the Parliamentary declaration of the country as a "secular state" instead of a "Hindu Kingdom."
Of particular concern were the local affiliates of the India-based Hindu political party Shiv Sena, locally known as Pashupati Sena, Shiv Sena Nepal, and Nepal Shivsena.
This group was accused of playing a role in the violence in the Terai, the southern area of Nepal along the border with India, in late 2006 and early 2007.
Some citizens were wary of proselytizing and conversion by Christians and viewed the growth of Christianity with concern.
There were unconfirmed reports that Maoists suppressed religious observance in areas under their control through intimidation and harassment.
Those who chose to convert to other religions, in particular Hindu citizens who converted to Islam or Christianity, were sometimes ostracized.
They occasionally faced isolated incidents of hostility or discrimination from Hindu extremist groups.
Some reportedly were forced to leave their villages.
While this prejudice was not systematic, it was occasionally violent.
Nevertheless, converts generally were not afraid to publicly admit their new religious affiliations.
Although such discrimination is prohibited by the Constitution, the caste system strongly influenced society.
Societal discrimination against members of lower castes and Dalits remained widespread despite the Government's efforts to protect the rights of disadvantaged castes.
Lower castes also experienced discrimination in many other areas of life, including education, employment, and marriage.
Other religious communities did not practice caste discrimination.
Entrance into many Hindu temples was often restricted for persons not of South Asian ethnicity, who are unlikely to be Hindu.
On April 11, 2007, the Ministry of Education and Sports reported that Dalit students in Parbat District had been refused admission to the high school completion examination based on their caste.
The Ministry said it would take action against those involved; however, at the end of the reporting period, the Ministry had not done so.
On March 4, 2007, more than 100 Dalit families were forced to leave their village in Rautahat District after a clash between a Dalit and a higher caste individual during a religious festival.
The families returned to their village on March 8 after police, human rights activists, and Dalit organizations intervened.
In October 2006 a Dalit family in Doti District was banished from its community because family members refused to play music (their traditional role) during a Hindu religious celebration.
The family took refuge in a neighboring village.
Atheist population can also be seen in Nepal particularly of the Communist party of Nepal, who do not follow or practice any religions, which also shows freedom of not practicing any religions.
Robert L. Millet (born December 30, 1947) is a professor of ancient scripture and emeritus Dean of Religious Education at Brigham Young University (BYU) in Provo, Utah.
Millet is a Latter-day Saint author and speaker with more than 60 published works on virtually all aspects of Mormonism.
Millet co-founded the evangelical-Mormon dialogue.
He appears frequently as a commentator on BYUtv and in other visible roles at assorted media outlets as Manager of Outreach and Interfaith Relations for the LDS Church's Public Affairs Department.
As a religion instructor, Millet has become known for his "milk before meat" approach of avoiding less popular LDS doctrines when discussing the church with non-Mormons.
Millet is considered one of the foremost scholars on the Joseph Smith Translation (also known as the Inspired Version) of the Bible.
Millet received a Ph.D. from Florida State University in biblical studies and contemporary theology and a master's degree in Psychology from BYU.
Millet has been a member of the BYU faculty since 1983.
Millet married Shauna Sizemore Millet in 1971 and they are the parents of six children.
Other writings by Millet include the books Talking with God: Divine Conversations That Transform Daily Life (2010), "The Historical Jesus: A Latter-day Saint Perspective" in Paul Y. Hoskisson, edited Historicity and the Latter-day Saint Scriptures.
Anton Martin Slomšek (26 November 1800 – 24 September 1862) was a Slovene bishop, author, poet, and advocate of Slovene culture.
Slomšek was born to a peasant family in the hamlet of Slom near the village of Ponikva in the Municipality of Šentjur, Lower Styria.
He studied theology and philosophy before being ordained in 1824 at the seminary in Klagenfurt.
From 1829 to 1838 Slomšek was spiritual director of the seminary of Klagenfurt.
In the latter year he became the priest of Saldenhofen an der Drau.
In 1844 Slomšek moved to Sankt Andrä and headed the school of the Diocese of Lavant.
He became a priest in Celje in 1846, and in the same year he was ordained Bishop of Lavant.
In the following years Slomšek strove for the transfer of the See of Lavant from Sankt Andrä in eastern Carinthia to Maribor in Lower Styria, which he achieved in 1859.
He strove for religious education and education in Slovene, writing numerous books on the matter.
Slomšek was considered an excellent preacher and a tireless and modest priest.
He also wrote songs, some of which, such as the toast "En hribček bom kupil" (I Will Buy a Small Hill) have achieved widespread popularity and are still sung today.
Together with Andrej Einspieler and Anton Janežič, Slomšek was the co-founder of the Hermagoras Society, the oldest Slovene publishing house.
Slomšek died in Maribor in 1862.
In 1996, Slomšek was described as a "Venerable Servant of God" by Pope John Paul II.
On 19 September 1999, John Paul II announced Slomšek's beatification in Maribor, instead of Rome, as is the usual custom.
Tahir Anwar (born February 25, 1978, London, England) is a scholar currently residing in the San Francisco Bay Area.
His family moved to the area in 1983.
He received basic religious education with his father, Anwar Patel,.
Tahir Anwar left in 1991 to attended a traditional Islamic University (madarassa) in Gujrat, India known as Falah ud Darayn.
He is Hafiz, has a B.A.
in Islamic Theology and has completed many other advanced courses in Islamic studies, earning him the title of Alim or scholar.
Until recently, he served as Imam and Director of Religious Services at South Bay Islamic Association until November 21, 2014 when he resigned.
He is also the head of the Islamic Studies Department, and an Islamic Studies teacher at Granada Islamic School, which is attached to the Muslim Community Association of Santa Clara County.
Anwar has been leading a group to perform Hajj for several years, with CNN twice covering this pilgrimage.
He also sits on Zaytuna College's Management Committee, Averroes High School's Board of Directors as well as other panels and boards.
Anwar is often called to serve on different community panels and commissions, including: He is frequently invited to speak at community forums, various universities and religious institutions.
He has also traveled to many different countries, and is fluent in English, Urdu, Arabic, Hindi, and Gujarati languages.
He is married and has two sons.
Anwar resigned from the South Bay Islamic Association as Director of Religious Services on November 21, 2014, citing personal reasons.
He continues to reside in the San Francisco Bay Area
Rev.
Peadar Livingstone (1932–1989) was a Roman Catholic priest in the Diocese of Clogher, Ireland.
Peadar Livingstone was born in 1932 and raised in Castleblayney, County Monaghan.
His father was a jeweller.
He entered St. Macartan's College, Monaghan in 1945.
Following his secondary school education, he enter Maynooth College to study for the priesthood for the diocese.
He studied Celtic languages — Gaeilge and Cymraeg.
He then completed a second degree in theology.
He was ordained a priest in 1957.
Livingstone continued his studies at Maynooth; however, he was recalled to the diocese in 1957 before he completed his Higher Diploma in Education.
He was appointed to the teaching staff of St. Michael's College in Enniskillen, a diocesan seminary in Northern Ireland.
At St. Michael's, he taught Irish, history and religious education.
Livingstone was a renowned scholar in both the Irish language and local history.
In 1969, he published The Fermanagh Story, a comprehensive history of the county of Fermanagh.
In 1979, his work The Monaghan Story was published.
He also wrote a regular column for The Fermanagh Herald, a local newspaper, under the name "Ernesense."
Livingstone was appointed president of St. Michael's College where he introduced some disciplinary measures, including mandatory uniforms.
He was appointed a curate to the parish of Donaghmoyne in 1977.
In 1987 he was assigned to the parish of Clogher in County Tyrone where he died in 1989, aged 57.
Amy Welborn (born July 17, 1960, Bloomington, Indiana) is an American Roman Catholic writer and activist, as well as a public speaker.
Formerly, she was a theology teacher at a Catholic high school in Lakeland Florida and served as a parish Director of Religious Education.
She was a columnist for Our Sunday Visitor.
as well as for Catholic News Service.
Welborn was one of the first Catholic bloggers.
She has changed her blog's name and server on three occasions.
The four successive blogs have been In Between Naps (amywelborn.blogspot.com), Open Book (amywelborn.typepad.com), Charlotte Was Both (amywelborn.wordpress.com), and Via Media (blog.beliefnet.com/ViaMedia).
Open Book received almost 12,000 page views per day when it was still active.
Welborn considers blogging to be an alternative venue to expose unpopular views.
Welborn holds a BA in Honors History from the University of Tennessee and an MA in Church History from Vanderbilt Divinity School.
Pijtter (Pieter) Boeloes (born March 4, 1795) is a Dutch Minister and linguist.
Boeles, son of the Frisian farmers Jetzo Boeles and Trijntje Pieters, studied theology at the University of Groningen.
He completed his major in 1817 with a dissertation, which was published by J. Oomkens Groningen.
In the same year he married Alberdina Janna Speckman of Elde.
He was minister of Pingjum, Noordlaren and Noorddijk successively.
The greatest part of his career, from 1827 to 1870, he was last minister of the Reformed Stephanuskerk.
We was also a member of the provincial church government, president of the classical association of Groningen and member of the college of supervision of the ecclesiastical administration of Reformed Church in the Groningen Province.
In 1853 he was chairman of the national synod of the Reformed Church.
Boeles published ten articles for his pastorate about various affairs, including the fields of religion, religious education, church polity and history.
He then wrote the first dictionary of the Gronings dialect, the Idioticon Groninganum: vergelijkend woordenboek van den Groningschen tongval (Idioticon Groninganum: comparative dictionary of the Gronings dialect).
This unpublished manuscript was recovered by the professor of Groninger language and culture Siemon Reker in the nineties of the 20th century and appeared in print in 1997.
In 1850 he received an honorary doctorate from the University of Groningen and during his fiftieth year of his pastorate on November 24, 1867 he became a knight in the Order of the Netherlands Lion.
Pieter Boeles died in 1875 in Groningen at the age of eighty.
His son Willem Boele Sophius Boeles was president of the court in Leeuwarden Boeles was buried in the cemetery at the Reformed Stephanuskerk in Noorddijk
Andrew C. Skinner (born 1951) was a dean of religious education at Brigham Young University and the author of a wide variety of books and articles on historical and doctrinal topics.
Skinner currently serves as the executive director of the Neal A. Maxwell Institute for Religious Scholarship.
Skinner grew up in Colorado.
From 1970 to 1972 he was a missionary for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) in the California Central Mission.
He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Colorado.
Skinner holds a master's degree in theology from Harvard University and a Ph.D. in history from the University of Denver.
Prior to joining the faculty of Brigham Young University, Skinner was a religion instructor at Ricks College for four years.
Skinner is the co-author of Jerusalem: The Eternal City.
He has written several books related to the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ including The Garden Tomb.
Among Skinner's works are several articles on LDS doctrinal topics in the Encyclopedia of Latter-day Saint History, as well as the article on Abraham Lincoln in that volume.
He wrote an article for the LDS magazine "Ensign" entitled The Book of Abraham: A Most Remarkable Book wherein he discusses LDS cosmology.
Skinner also wrote the article on Lincoln's Presidency in the Encyclopedia of North American History.
He co-authored Joseph: Exploring the Life and Ministry of the Prophet with Susan Easton Black.
Skinner has served in several positions in the LDS Church including serving multiple times as a bishop.
He has also served as a member of the Church's Correlation Evaluation Committee.
Skinner is married to Janet Corbridge.
They are the parents of six children.
Naim Qassem (born 1953) is a Shia Lebanese cleric and politician, who is the second in command of Hezbollah with the title of deputy secretary-general.
Qassem was born into a Shiite family in Kfar Fila in 1953.
He studied theology and his teacher was Ayatollah Mohammad Hussein Fadlallah.
He also received a bachelor's degree in chemistry from Lebanese University.
Qassem is one of the founders of Lebanese Muslim students union that was established in the 1970s.
He joined the Amal movement when it was headed by Imam Musa Sadr.
Qassem was the head of the Islamic religious education association from 1974 to 1988.
He also served as the advisor for al Mustafa schools.
Then Qassem participated in foundation activities of Hezbollah and was appointed deputy secretary-general of Hezbollah in 1992.
In 2009, Mustafa Badr Al Din replaced Imad Mughniyah as the head of Hezbollah's military activities.
However, Qassem did not support it, favoring Samir Shehade.
Qassem published a book, Hezbollah: The Story from Within, in 2006.
On 1 August 2011, Qassem attended a ceremony for the eighth edition of his book, where he made the statement that "Billions of dollars have been offered to us to rebuild the deprived south Lebanon and in return to surrender our arms and stop the work of the resistance.
But we told them we're not in need [of their money] and the resistance will go on regardless of the consequences."
Mathias Hovius (1542 &ndash; 30 May 1620), born Matthijs Van Hove, was the third Archbishop of Mechelen from 1596 to 1620.
As Archbishop, Hovius presided over implementing the Catholic Reformation in the Spanish Netherlands.
Born at Mechelen, Hovius studied theology and philosophy at Leuven University, and was ordained priest in 1566, the year iconoclasm broke out in the Netherlands.
While pastor at Saints Peter and Paul's Church in Mechelen, Hovius witnessed the Spanish Fury at Mechelen in 1572, and the English Fury at Mechelen in 1580, both during the Eighty Years' War.
Hovius was appointed vicar-general of the archdiocese of Mechelen upon the death of Archbishop Joannes Hauchin in 1589.
In 1596, Hovius was consecrated the third Archbishop of Mechelen.
Among his accomplishments were the founding of a seminary and the creation of a catechism with help from the Jesuits.
The Mechelen Catechism remained a standard in Catholic religious education in Belgium until well into the twentieth century.
In 1609, Hovius convened a provincial council in Mechelen to implement the decrees of the Council of Trent in the archdiocese.
He was supported in his efforts by Albert and Isabella of Austria, Governors-General of the Spanish Netherlands.
Archbishop Hovius died on 30 May 1620 during a canonical visitation to Affligem Abbey.
Jamiah Arabia Ahsan-Ul-Uloom is an international Sunni Islamic educational institute located in Gulshan-e-Iqbal, Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.
It is regarded as one of the most established Islamic institutes in Pakistan and has a huge following among both Islamic scholars and public.
It mainly focuses on teaching Classical Arabic, Islamic theology and Hanafi jurisprudence fiqh by preparing scholars and experts in those fields through intensive Islamic law courses.
It is known for following a strict code of refraining from innovations deemed unacceptable in Islam.
Jamiah Ahsan-ul-Uloom was founded by Maulana Mufti Zar Wali Khan in 1398 A.H. (corresponding to 1978 CE).
It is affiliated to Ittehad Tanzeematul Madaris-e-Deeniya (ITMD), a confederacy of five religious education boards.
At 3 December 2012 its teacher of Daura hadith class Maulana Ismail was martyred by un known persons at abul hasan asfani road.
Ratu Josaia Naulumatua Rayawa is a Fijian Chief, religious minister, and former political leader.
He served in the Senate from 2001 to 2006 as one of nine nominees of the Fijian Prime Minister, Laisenia Qarase.
He had previously been President of the now-defunct Christian Democratic Alliance (VLV), which won three seats in the 1999 election.
Rayawa was born in Nabudrau, Noco, in Rewa Province on 28 December 1931.
He currently holds the title of Tui Noco and is one of the district chiefs in the province of Rewa.
Educated in the United States, he holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Religious Education and a Master of Arts degree in Theology from AOG Theological Graduate School in Springfield, Missouri.
Ordained as an Assemblies of God minister in 1967, Rayawa has been active in community and religious works in various nations of the South Pacific, including Fiji.
He has worked and pastored in Lautoka (1960-1966); Beqa (1966); Levuka (1967); Labasa (1968-1973), the Solomon Islands (1971, as a missionary), Dreketi(1968-1972), and Caubati (1974-1977).
During this time, he worked as senior lecturer at the South Pacific Bible College in Wainadoi, Fiji.
He worked as an evangelist and helped establish missionary work in Waya Island in the Yasawas.
He was also senior Pastor/founder of Suva Community Christian Fellowship (1991-1996).
The Assemblies of God appointed Rayawa 1st District Suprindendant Northern Division in 1969.
He was elected General Secretary of the AOG Executive Council, Fiji (1988-1996).
He has been invited as a conference speaker in Tonga, Vanuatu, New Caledonia, Kiribati, New Zealand, Australia, and Madras, India.
Following his semi-retirement from Executive Council and pastoral work, Rayawa ventured into the political arena, where he served as President of the Christian Democratic Alliance.
In his youth, Rayawa served as a Royal Fiji Military soldier in the Malayan Emergency during the 1950s.
He was also an active rugby player in the Combined Services Rugby team.
St. Sava Serbian Orthodox School of Theology in Libertyville, Illinois is the professional theological school in the Serbian Orthodox Church in the USA and Canada.
The school is collocated with the St. Sava Serbian Orthodox Monastery.
St Sava provides a four-year theological education for the priestly and religious education vocations in a program that grants a Bachelor's degree upon graduation.
The classes are open to both male and female students.
Classes are taught in both English and Serbian.
The student body of St. Sava school is currently 23 (2006).
The school possesses a library of 8,000 titles.
The monastery was founded in 1923 by Montenegrin Serb Bishop Mardary as a school for the Serbian Orthodox Church.
Dionisije Milivojević was appointed bishop of the American-Canadian Diocese in 1939.
During World War II, the Libertyville monastery became an American refuge for Orthodox Serbs.
In 1964, Patriarch German of Serbia defrocked American Bishop Dionisije Milivojević over political and administrative issues.
This forced a split between the Serbian and North American branches of the church.
The result was two separate North American churches--the Serbian Orthodox Church in the USA and Canada in Libertyville and the Diocese of New Gracanica – Midwestern America in nearby Third Lake.
The Illinois Supreme Court deemed that this schism was a violation of the mother church's regulations and forbade recognition of Bishop Dionisije.
However, in 1976, the United States Supreme Court ruled that this was in violation of the First and Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution in Serbian Orthodox Diocese v. Milivojevich.
Peter II of Yugoslavia, the last Serbian king, lived at the monastery after being exiled by Josip Broz Tito.
He died at the church in 1970 and his will stipulated that he wished to be buried there.
More than 10,000 attended his funeral.
He lay there until his remains were repatriated to Serbia in 2013.
The property is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
In 1970 a group of ten families from the BMG Institute for Advanced Learning of Lakewood, New Jersey moved to Toronto and founded the Toronto Kollel.
The founders include: Rav Shlomo Eliyahu Miller, the Rosh Kollel of the Kollel Avreichim Institute for Advanced Judaic Studies in Toronto and head of its Beis Din (rabbinical court) and Rav Yaakov Hirschman.
Known previously as the Institute for Advanced Talmudic Study - Kollel Avreichim, it was incorporated by letters patent dated October 9, 1970 as an institution of higher learning in theology, religious education, scholarship and research.
research in higher Jewish learning for rabbis, teachers and educators; The building houses the 3,000-square-foot Bais Medrash, classrooms, three book libraries, CD library, two computer online libraries, the Bar Ilan computer resource library, the Kol Halashon online Lecture library, meeting rooms, a kitchen and a dining room.
The Ladies Auxiliary maintains the Weinstock Memorial Library which is open to the public and runs a series of community lectures.
Kollel Toronto is an institution of learning consisting of a core group of scholars who are engaged in full-time Torah study at an advanced level—headed by Roshei Kollel, Rav Shlomo Miller שליט"א and Rav Yaakov Hirschman שליט"א.
David Gray Mulready (born 19 September 1947) is the immediate past bishop of the Anglican Diocese of North West Australia, the largest diocese in geographical size in the Anglican Communion, covering approximately a quarter of the Australian continent.
Mulready was born in Sydney, the son of Norman Benson Mulready and Edna Faith Osborne.
He grew up on the Northern Beaches in Curl Curl, New South Wales and attended Newington College (1960–1964).
He became an airline trainee with Qantas before studying at Moore Theological College and the Melbourne College of Divinity.
He holds a Licenciate of Theology and a Diploma of Religious Education.
Mulready's ordained ministry began in the Diocese of Sydney and he then served 15 years in the Diocese of Armidale.
He worked in rural parish ministry in New South Wales and was posted to Tambar Springs (1974–1977), Walgett (1977–1981), Manilla (1981–1985) and Gunnedah (1985–1989).
Mulready was the NSW State Secretary of the Bush Church Aid Society from 1989, after which he moved St Stephen's Church, Penrith (1993–2000).
He then served as Rector of St John's, Parramatta (2000–2004) until he was elected Bishop of North-West Australia.
Mulready was consecrated as bishop in February 2004.
Mulready married Maureen Jane Lawrie in 1972 and is the father of two adult sons and a daughter.
Journey From Zanskar is a 2010 documentary film written, produced, and directed by Frederick Marx, for Warrior Films.
It tells the emotional story of 17 small children who leave home and family, possibly forever, in order to save their dying Tibetan culture.
Parting from one of the most remote and desolate places on Earth – Zanskar, in northwest India – the expedition must travel on foot over 17,000 foot Himalayan passes.
The two monks serving as guides walked this same path 30 years ago when they were children.
The 17 children with them may not return home for 10–15 years or more.
Narrated by Richard Gere, featuring the Dalai Lama, the film tells the story of their incredible journey.
Zanskar is the last remaining original Tibetan Buddhist society with a continuous untainted lineage dating back thousands of years.
In nearby Tibet and Ladakh, in Sikkim, Bhutan, and Nepal, traditional Tibetan Buddhist culture is either dead already or dying.
The horror of Chinese government design in Tibet is being matched by the destruction of global economics elsewhere.
Zanskar, ringed by high Himalayan mountains in northwest India, one of the most remote places on the planet, has been safe until now.
In 3–5 years a road connecting Padum, the heart of Zanskar, with Leh, the heart of neighboring Ladakh, will be finished.
The route which previously took up to two days by car will take only 4–5 hours.
As economic growth descends on Zanskar it will bring with it an end to this unbroken Buddhist social tradition.
Will the native language, culture, and religious practice be able to survive?
The Dalai Lama has instructed two monks from Zanskar’s Stongde Monastery to do everything in their power to insure that it does.
The monks are building a school to educate the children from surrounding villages in their own language, culture, history, and religion.
Presently, the government school teaches none of those subjects, and is closed most of the year.
The nearby private school also doesn’t teach those subjects and is additionally unaffordable for the area’s poor families.
At Stongde, along with indigenous traditions, the children will be educated in the best Western curricula.
The monks are racing against the clock.
While they complete the school they are also placing local children in other schools and monasteries in the city of Manali and beyond.
This requires walking over a 17,500 foot pass.
Led by yaks... Whatever it takes.
Distributed in France by Jupiter films.
Frederick Marx is currently self-distributing Journey From Zanskar in the United States through his non-profit company Warrior Films.
Dhivehi Latin or Maldivian Latin, known colloquially as Malé Latin or Nasiri Latin, is a Latin Maldivian alphabet briefly mandated in the Maldives from 1976, but the country reverted to the native Tāna and Arabic alphabets in 1978.
Maldivian Latin is still widely used in non-academic literature for romanizing Maldivian place names.
Maldivians traditionally used two alphabets simultaneously, the Tāna script for Maldivian and the Arabic script for Arabic.
All learned Maldivians were well versed in the Quran and Arabic was the first script they learned since childhood.
This was followed by their local script, Tāna, in which there were not many books printed, but that was important for official use.
Therefore, the primary knowledge of the letters was called Arabitāna.
Toward the mid-1970s, during President Ibrahim Nasir's tenure, Telex machines were introduced by the Maldivian Government in the local administration.
The new telex equipment was viewed as a great progress, however the local Tāna script was deemed to be an obstacle because messages on the telex machines could only be written in the Latin script.
Following this, a Latin transliteration not done by experts in linguistics was swiftly approved by the Maldive government in 1976 and was quickly implemented by the administration.
Booklets were printed and dispatched to all atoll and island offices, as well as schools and merchant liners.
This official Latin script has been criticized by several scholars because the transliteration of vowels did not follow the consistency of the Thaana alphabet and was more difficult to master for Maldivian learners.
In the Maldivian alphabet there is one single diacritical sign (fili) for 'a' 'e' 'i' and 'u', and this single sign is repeated when the sound is lengthened.
In the new romanization only one of the short vowels is consistent with the way of the traditional script "aa", but most long vowels "oo", "ee", "ey" and "oa" are pronounced as in English.
However, only a very small group of Maldivians belonging to the elite were familiar with written English in 1977.
Anthropologist Clarence Maloney notes that the use of th and dh to represent unaspirated dental consonants but lh for retroflex l is confusing and misleading, as in IAST, the most common transcription method for Indic languages, the first two would be read as aspirated consonants and the latter, which is instead a retroflex, as an aspirated "l".
The new romanization also used aberrant combinations of letters and apostrophes for some Arabic sounds, effectively ignoring the Arabic transliterations accepted in academic circles worldwide.
Maldivian officials were used to read Arabic since childhood, as the religious education had precedence over the secular one.
In documents which contained only one script, it became harder to identify religious Arabic quotations, a fact which was important because they had to be read in a different tone.
The Tāna script was reinstated by President Maumoon Abdul Gayoom shortly after he took power in 1978.
Being able to master and combine both Arabic and Tāna was a prerequisite to be a Katiibu, Mudiimu or Atoll chief.
The weekly Khutuba or Friday prayer sermon, was sent by the government to every inhabited island, and it was written in both scripts, because it contained texts both in Arabic and in the Maldivian language.
Even other documents of the time, like private letters, astrological writings or storybooks contained texts, in which both scripts were present, because not only quotations from the Muslim religious texts, but also certain words of Arabic origin (for example the local words for "special", "rule", "important", "declaration", and "service" among others) were written in the Arabic script.
At the time of the romanization every island's officials were required to use only one script and they became illiterate overnight.
From their point of view it was a traumatic period and these old government officers were indeed relieved when the romanization was revoked.
Wolvercote Cemetery is a cemetery in the parish of Wolvercote, Oxford, England.
Its main entrance is on Banbury Road and it has a side entrance in Five Mile Drive.
It has a funeral chapel, public toilets and a small amount of car parking.
The cemetery was opened in 1889 and now contains more than 15,000 burials.
The cemetery has a number of sections for individual religions or ethnicities, including Bahá'í, Muslim, Jewish, Greek Orthodox, Russian Orthodox, Serbian Orthodox, Polish Roman Catholic and other Roman Catholic.
There is an area for the burial of cremated remains, an area for green burials and an area for the burial of stillborns and infants.
Many notable people are buried in Wolvercote Cemetery, including many former academics of the University of Oxford.
The cemetery includes the graves of 44 Commonwealth service personnel: 21 from World War I and 23 from World War II.
Martin Gay Black (19 November 1786 &ndash; 26 October 1861) was the son of William Black, who was the founder of the Methodist congregation in Nova Scotia.
Martin Black was raised in a home dedicated to the evangelical religious practices of Methodism.
He became a successful businessman and moved into banking.
He was a founding partner of the Halifax Banking Company and eventually its president.
He was a powerful and distinguished member of the community and also furthered the influence of the Methodist movement in Nova Scotia.
In English history, Conformists were those whose religious practices conformed with the requirements of the Act of Uniformity and so were in concert with the Established Church, the Church of England, as opposed to those of Nonconformists whose practices were not acceptable to the Church of England.
In 1662 ministers had to sign the Act of Uniformity to use the book of common prayer.
Virtually the only church in the UK that is still truly "Conformist" in this sense is the Church of England (Continuing).
Buddhism in Finland represents a very small percentage of that nation's religious practices.
Out of the 5,238,460 people living in Finland, only 0.1% (5,000) of the population is identified as being Buddhist.
There are currently 12 Finnish cities that have Buddhist temples: in Helsinki, Hyvinkää, Hämeenlinna, Jyväskylä, Kouvola, Kuopio, Lahti, Lappeenranta, Pori, Salo, Tampere and Turku.
An ethnic majority refers to a condition in which a particular ethnic group comprises the majority of a particular population.
It is frequently based on genealogy.
For example, we can refer to the Caucasian race, or the Asian race, or the black race.
However, it can also refer to a commonality in cultural or religious practices, as well as linguistic or behavioral practices.
Global Community Communications Alliance, a church and religious organization originally founded in 1989 in Prescott, Arizona by Anthony J. Delevin (publicly known as Gabriel of Urantia) and Niánn Emerson Chase (born Nancy Chase).
Organized as an IRS section 501(c)(3) church consisting of a Board of Directors, Elders and Ordained Ministers.
Gabriel and Niánn together hold the "Mandate of the Bright and Morning Star".
The foundational teachings of the church, “a new millennium church,” are based on revelatory concepts, a new thought theology with elements from The Urantia Book, as well as The Cosmic Family volumes.
Global Community Communications Alliance is the first URANTIA Book church in the country and world—The URANTIA Book published in 1955 being the beginning of the Fifth Epochal Revelation to humankind, and The Cosmic Family volumes (brought through by Gabriel of Urantia) are believed to be the continuation of the Fifth Epochal Revelation (the other nine-tenths).
Their sacred texts teach the concepts of “One God” through “ascension science” –the fusion of science and spirituality.
Other religious texts such as the Holy Bible, the Koran, the Torah, the Bhagavad Gita, the Book of Mormon, the writings of Bahá'u'lláh, and the Tao Te Ching are also considered to bring truths to our world’s peoples.
Resident religious order “[m]embers come from diversified backgrounds such as ministry, medicine, law, music, art, media, construction, architecture, and global communication.
Their common thread is the desire for a life of integrity, simplicity, and harmony, as they work to align themselves with the divine patterns of life on earth.” Since its creation GCCA has founded other supporting organizations, and many outreach ministries including Spirit Steps Tours, Global Change Multi-Media, Future Studios, The Alternative Voice, and Global Community Communications Schools.
GCCA has operated Avalon Organic Gardens & EcoVillage as a C.S.A.
(Community Supported Agriculture) farm for more than twenty years.
“They [not only] embrace a spiritual and natural approach to living off the land and growing food for sustainability and health” but also widely share this approach with others.
One of the church’s outreach services in Tucson, Arizona, “Homeless Is Not My Choice,” takes after the founder’s beginning ministry on 4th Avenue, Sonlight Ministries.
“Homeless Is Not My Choice" provides housing, nutrition, and vocation opportunities for what the founder refers to as the “new homeless,” those who have lost their homes due to foreclosures, economic recession, an uncaring government, and corporate greed.
Other services in Tucson, Arizona parented by the church include “The Sea of Glass—Center For The Arts,” an educational and entertainment facility and the adjoining Food For Ascension Café, an organic restaurant service with vegan and vegetarian menu options in support of the “Slow Food Movement,” “Seed to Table” principles, and the “GMO-Free Tucson” efforts that are important to local residents.
International interest in the group began in 1996, when it was first featured on an Italian television show.
Since that time, they have been featured in many news articles in the United States and other countries, including the EcoVillage Network of the Americas and two Japanese periodicals, Trinity Magazine and Star People Magazine.
Along with The Cosmic Family volumes, the church founders Gabriel and Niánn, have authored and published many books and articles including The Divine New Order, the autobiography of Gabriel of Urantia, Teachings on Healing, The Best of the Film Industry, and numerous articles in many periodicals, including Communities Magazine (Summer 2008, Fall 2008, Fall 2009, Winter 2009, and Winter 2010).
Gabriel was born on July 5, 1946, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
He studied theology at Duquesne University, and at the time was involved with the Catholic Charismatic Movement.
He left his theology studies for full-time street ministry serving alcoholics, drug addicts, and the homeless, opening a halfway house known as Sonlight Ministries on 4th Avenue in Tucson, Arizona.
Over the course of many years, Gabriel spent time in several different monasteries.
Gabriel began his music career singing as a youth on street corners and professionally in the 1960s.
In 1985, he recorded the first new age vocal album, which made succeeding New Age Vocal Music commercial.
He declined a contract offer from a major record label because he was not willing to change his spiritual lyrics.
To date, he has released 18 singles, five full length albums, three music videos, and an award winning live concert DVD.
Niánn Emerson Chase grew up on four different Native American reservations in the southwestern United States.
After earning her Bachelor’s Degree in Literature/English and Education, she returned to the San Carlos Apache Reservation in Arizona where she lived and taught for fifteen years before co-founding GCCA.
The Religious Education Association is the world’s oldest and largest association of scholars and researchers in the field of religious education.
It is a nonprofit member association, serving as a professional and learned society for scholars and researchers involved in the field of religious education.
It has several hundred members, most of whom are from North America, with a scattering of members worldwide.
REA members are university and college professors, independent scholars, secondary teachers, clergy, church educators, curriculum developers, judicatory executives, seminarians, graduate students, and interested lay-people.
REA members come from multiple faith traditions, and no tradition, and study a very diverse array of religious traditions.
The REA was founded in 1903 by William Rainey Harper, the first president of the University of Chicago, with the support of the Council of Seventy, a learned society of biblical scholars.
The keynote speaker at its first convention was John Dewey.
In its early years the Association was organized into several groups: Council of religious education, Universities and colleges, Theological seminaries, Churches and pastors, Sunday schools, Secondary public schools, Elementary public schools, Private schools, Teacher-training, Christian associations, Young people’s societies, the Home, Libraries, the Press, Correspondence instructions, Summer assemblies, Religious art and Music.
In 1906 the Association began to publish the journal Religious Education under the editorship of Henry Cope.
In 1953 the Association marked its 50th anniversary with a three day meeting at the University of Pittsburgh that brought together more than 2500 Christian and Jewish educators from the US and Canada.
In 1973 the Association began awarding the William Harper Rainey award to distinguished educators.
In 1975, the Association held a major national colloquy on civil religion at which scholars Robert Bellah, Vine DeLoria, Jr., and Michael Novak spoke.
In 1992 the Association began awarding the Herman E. Wornom award to distinguished institutions.
In 2003 the REA merged with the Association of Professors and Researchers in Religious Education (which was formed in 1970 from an earlier section of the National Council of Churches).
Yale University holds the archives of the Religious Education Association and its predecessor bodies.
The REA has published the scholarly journal Religious Education continuously since 1906 (archives of which are available electronically at Taylor & Francis).
This journal has consistently published work by scholars from multiple continents, diverse faith traditions, and various educational settings, and maintains a high level of citation in various ranking systems.
In 2014 the REA began publishing a scholarly monograph series entitled Horizons in Religious Education jointly with Wipf & Stock.
The REA also publishes a quarterly newsletter, eREACH, which began as the “religious education association clearing house,” and which serves to network, resource, and connect the association members.
The REA hosts an annual meeting every year, usually in early November.
Meeting presentations occur in four formats: research interest group (a formal scholarly paper), colloquy (a collaborative session engaging ideas in progress), workshop (a hands on session oriented towards specific skills), and poster (a typical scholarly poster presentation).
The association has a long history of commitment to collegiality, innovative learning design, and support for students.
In addition, the REA is a “related scholarly organization” to the American Academy of Religion, and hosts one session each year at the AAR annual meeting.
The Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act (RLUIPA), , codified as et seq., is a United States federal law that prohibits the imposition of burdens on the ability of prisoners to worship as they please and gives churches and other religious institutions a way to avoid burdensome zoning law restrictions on their property use.
It also defines the term “religious exercise” to include "any exercise of religion, whether or not compelled by, or central to, a system of religious belief."
RLUIPA was enacted by the United States Congress in 2000 to correct the problems of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) of 1993.
The act was passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate by unanimous consent in voice votes, meaning that no objection was raised to its passage, so no written vote was taken.
In 1997, the United States Supreme Court held the RFRA to be unconstitutional as applied to state and local governments, in City of Boerne v. Flores, 521 U.S. 507.
Unlike the RFRA, which required religious accommodation in virtually all spheres of life, RLUIPA only applies to prisoner and land use cases.
Dep't of Human Resources v. Smith, 494 U.S. 872, 883–85 (1990), the Supreme Court held that a substantial burden on religious exercise was subject to strict scrutiny where the law "lent itself to individualized governmental assessment of the reasons for the relevant conduct."
It was not a case permitting exceptions for freedom of religion when generally applicable health and welfare regulations were in question, and it should be remembered that Smith lost this case (involving a denial of unemployment benefits where the litigant had used illegal drugs in a religious ceremony).
In line with the scrutiny regime established in West Coast Hotel v. Parrish in 1937, the Court ruled that unless the law is not one of general applicability, regardless of specific circumstance, government may act if policy is rationally related to a legitimate government interest, even if the act imposes a substantial burden on the exercise of religion.
In the 2005 case of Cutter v. Wilkinson, five prisoners in Ohio – including a Wiccan, a Satanist, and a member of a racist, allegedly Christian, sect – successfully sought to apply the protections of the act to their religious practices.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit had held that RLUIPA violated the Establishment Clause by impermissibly advancing religion by bestowing benefits to religious prisoners that were unavailable to non-religious prisoners.
The U.S. Supreme Court disagreed, unanimously holding that RLUIPA was a permissible accommodation of religion justified by the fact that the government itself had severely burdened the prisoners' religious rights through the act of incarceration.
A concurring opinion by Justice Thomas noted that the states could escape the restrictions of RLUIPA simply by refusing federal funds for state prisons.
Cutter v. Wilkinson only concerns the prisoner portion of RLUIPA.
The court explicitly declined to extend the rule to land use cases.
In a unanimous opinion issued March 15, 2011, that reverses the three-judge panel's May 2010 ruling, a limited en banc panel of 11 judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit held that an Orange County courthouse lockup is an "institution" under the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act, meaning a Muslim woman who sued after being forced to remove her headscarf in front of strange men is entitled to the act's protections.
The case is Khatib v. County of Orange, 08-56423.
The lawsuit started as a result of court bailiffs ordering the woman to remove her headscarf while she was temporarily being held inside the courthouse lock up while a county court judge was deciding whether or not to revoke her misdemeanor probation (she was released that same day after the judge decided not to).
The District Court had dismissed the case, with said dismissal being upheld by the three-judge appellate panel.
The case has now been reversed and sent back to the trial court for further proceedings.
It is the first time that a temporary holding facility (like a courthouse lock up) has been deemed to be an "institution" under the Act.
The law, passed by Congress in 2000, prohibits the government from imposing a "substantial burden" on prisoners' religious practices unless officials can show a compelling need for the restrictions.
The Obama administration joined Khatib in arguing that the law applied to courthouse holding cells.
In religious land use disputes, RLUIPA’s general rule is the most commonly cited and challenged section.
During these disputes, the correct interpretation of the term “land use regulation” is almost always an issue.
The statute defines “land use regulation” as “a zoning or landmarking law, or the application of such a law, that limits or restricts a claimant’s use or development of land (including a structure affixed to land), if the claimant has an ownership, leasehold, easement, servitude, or other property interest in the regulated land or a contract or option to acquire such an interest.” Currently being litigated is the conflict RLUIPA presents to municipalities' zoning and regulating rights.
Through RLUIPA, Congress has expanded religious accommodations to a point where it appears to restrict municipalities' zoning power.
Arguably, RLUIPA gives religious landowners a special right to challenge land use laws which their secular neighbors do not have.
But those defending RLUIPA would say this preference toward religion is in the First Amendment's religion clauses, so the law is just administering the Constitution itself.
Even if a zoning law is void of discrimination, the court reviewing a challenge will apply strict scrutiny to the city's regulation.
Litigation focusing on the term “land use regulation” occasionally asks courts to decide whether RLUIPA applies to eminent domain proceedings.
Generally, courts deciding this question have held that RLUIPA does not apply to eminent domain because it is not a “zoning or landmarking law.” Instead, these courts have held that zoning and eminent domain are two completely different and unrelated concepts.
The main argument to support this conclusion is that zoning and eminent domain are derived from two separate sources of power.
The zoning power is derived from the state’s police power, while the eminent domain power is derived from the Takings Clause of the United States Constitution's Fifth Amendment.
However, at least one court has applied the RLUIPA in an eminent-domain case because the authority to condemn the property came from the city's zoning scheme.
A court may be more inclined to find that eminent domain falls within the scope of RLUIPA if it was authorized by a zoning ordinance or comprehensive plan.
To date, no cases questioning RLUIPA’s application to eminent domain have reached the Supreme Court.
A 2003 Seventh Circuit case, St. John’s United Church of Christ v. City of Chicago, was appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, but the court declined to hear the appeal.
A refusal to hear means that the Supreme Court did not consider the Seventh Circuit Court's decision to be obviously wrong on the legal merits, or that the facts of the particular case could have broader constitutional implications.
The Supreme Court generally has a substantial workload and tends to refuse appeals which have already received due process in lower courts.
A refusal to hear a case does not preclude hearing a similar case in the future, if the court feels that further judicial review is needed.
The controversy in this case centered around the expansion of Chicago's O'Hare International Airport.
In order to expand this airport, the City needed to acquire 433 adjacent acres of land through condemnation.
Among the properties to be condemned were two cemeteries, one owned by St. John's United Church of Christ, and the other by Rest Haven Cemetery Association.
In their amended complaint, St. John's and Rest Haven alleged that condemnation of their cemeteries was a violation of RLUIPA.
After a revision to the O'Hare Modernization Project, Rest Haven's cemetery was no longer faced with condemnation and this church dropped out of the lawsuit.
St. John's Church argued that the condemnation action substantially burdened its freedom of religious practice because "[A] major tenet of its religious beliefs [was] that the remains of those buried at the [St. John's] St. Johannes Cemetery must not be disturbed until Jesus Christ raises these remains on the 'Day of Resurrection'."
This Court had to decide whether eminent domain fit within RLUIPA's definition of a "land use regulation."
The Court held that eminent domain was not a "land use regulation."
The Court cited the case of Faith Temple Church v. Town of Brighton to support its position that "zoning and eminent domain are 'two distinct concepts' that involve land in 'very different ways'."
St. John's Church also argued that the O'Hare Modernization Act, which authorized the condemnations, was a zoning law, and it invoked the protection of RLUIPA's in condemnation cases derived from the Act.
The Court rejected this argument and suggested that Congress would have included eminent domain in the language of RLUIPA if it had intended for the statute to cover eminent domain.
After considering the case, the Seventh Circuit Court denied St. John's motion for a preliminary injunction.
Cottonwood Christian Center filed a motion for a preliminary injunction to prevent the City of Cypress from taking its land through eminent domain.
The controversy in this case arose when Cottonwood purchased land in Cypress and planned to build a large church and other church-related buildings on an plot of land.
Since the church was to be built in an area that only allowed churches if they received a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) from Cypress, Cottonwood applied for a CUP.
Instead, the city planned to build a shopping mall that included Cottonwood's land.
They later scaled the mall down to a Costco store that was solely on Cottonwood's plot of land.
Cypress offered to purchase the land and Cottonwood did not accept.
As a result, Cypress initiated eminent domain proceedings to acquire the property under a zoning ordinance called the Los Alamitos Race Track and Golf Course Redevelopment Project (LART Plan).
The LART Plan authorized the use of eminent domain as a way to redevelop the area where Cottonwood's land was located.
Cottonwood argued that because the eminent domain proceedings stemmed from the LART Plan zoning scheme, they violated RLUIPA.
The Court granted a preliminary injunction against Cypress.
The Court held that RLUIPA applied in this case, and therefore, the Court used a strict scrutiny standard of review.
In its analysis, the Court found that it took Cottonwood five years to identify a location and negotiate for the land.
After all the church had invested, the City’s actions placed a substantial burden on the churches’ religious exercise without presenting a compelling government interest for doing so.
Faith Temple Church brought an action to enjoin the Town of Brighton from condemning its property through eminent domain.
Faith Temple was a church that had outgrown its needs at its original location.
In order to accommodate its larger congregation, it negotiated and eventually purchased a parcel of land in January 2004.
In its Comprehensive Plan for 2000, the Town had included a recommendation that this parcel be acquired.
The purpose of the acquisition was to expand an adjacent town-owned park.
After the church purchased the land, the Town initiated condemnation proceedings in the spring of 2004.
RLUIPA’s application to eminent domain was at issue in this case because Faith Temple argued that the recommendation in the Town’s Comprehensive Plan was essentially a “zoning law.” Further, if the recommendation was a zoning law, then Faith Temple argued that condemnation was "the application of a zoning law" and was a violation of RLUIPA.
The Court held that RLUIPA was inapplicable to this case.
The judge found that the connection between zoning and eminent domain in this case was "too attenuated to constitute the application of a zoning law."
Therefore, summary judgment was granted in favor of the Town, denying injunctive relief.
This case was an appeal to the Supreme Court of Hawaii which stemmed from a Honolulu city and county ordinance.
The ordinance gave the city and county eminent domain authority in "[A]ctions for [ ] lease-to-fee conversion[s] of certain leased-fee interests."
Using the authority granted by the ordinance, the City of Honolulu initiated condemnation proceedings to obtain thirty-four leasehold condominium units in the Admiral Thomas condominium complex.
The purpose behind the condemnation proceedings was to "conver[t] the leasehold [interests] to fee simple [interests] on behalf of forty-seven owner-occupant[s]" (the lessees).
The plaintiff-appellee in the action was the City and the defendant-appellant was First United Methodist Church as the fee owner of the Admiral Thomas condominium complex.
First United counterclaimed the condemnation proceedings and cited a violation of RLUIPA.
Using the Cottonwood case for support, First United argued that eminent domain is a "land use regulation" and that RLUIPA should be a defense to the City's action.
While First United argued that its exercise of religion had been burdened by the eminent domain proceedings, the City argued that First United had not proven this and that "the Church's exercise of religion [was] unaffected."
Affirming the decision of the circuit court granting summary judgment in favor of the City, the Court held that RLUIPA could not be used as a defense to eminent domain proceedings authorized under the ordinance.
The Court supported this holding by stating that eminent domain and zoning are different concepts and that it would not "assume that Congress simply overlooked [eminent domain] when drafting RLUIPA."
Since Congress did not include the term "eminent domain" in the RLUIPA statute, the Court decided that Congress did not want it to be included.
Therefore, the Court did not apply RLUIPA in this case.
is the ancient belief of the Ryūkyūan people that spiritual power is the domain of women.
The roles of women in Okinawan society and the ritual traditions of the Ryūkyūan religion are related to this belief.
Women with exceptionally high spiritual power are called and many have specific jobs in society.
Though the role of priestesses has changed over time, they are still celebrated in Okinawa today.
Much of the information on onarigami is not available in English.
Ryukyuan religion is the indigenous belief system of the Ryūkyū Islands.
It is largely based on ancestor veneration and concerned with relationships with the supernatural world.
It is similar to Shinto but is also influenced by Polynesian religious beliefs and practices.
Over time, Ryūkyūan religious practice has been influenced by Chinese religions, Buddhism, and Shinto.
In the late fifteenth century, King Shō Shin established a formal hierarchy of religious officials that corresponded closely to the hierarchy of male government officials.
He appointed his sister as the high priestess, known as the Kikoe Ougimi.
By the sixteenth century, the traditional Ryūkyūan beliefs were part of a well-structured state religion in the Ryūkyūan Kingdom.
The hierarchy of priestesses were an important factor in keeping the Ryūkyūan Kingdom unified.
The royal authority of kings was closely interwoven with the power of female religious officials to confer spiritual power (seji or shiji) (Smits, 55).
However, the king was not originally a large part in most important rites of the state.
His role was passive compared to the Buddhist monks, high priestess and other leading female religious officials (Smits, 101).
Near the end of the sixteenth century, the Shimazu clan of Satsuma invaded the Ryūkyūan Kingdom under the approval of the Japanese rulers in Edo.
As many of Satsuma’s elite viewed the Ryūkyūans as culturally inferior, a number of contemporary politicians attempted to reform the kingdom in order to be more acceptable to both the Japanese rulers and to China.
During this time, it is thought that the brother-sister relationship became more important than ties to wives and mothers largely as a result of the influence of state formation and the introduction of a patrilineal form of kinship.
Satsuma slowly attempted to strip power from women.
In 1611, the Fifteen Articles Decree included an article that stated women were no longer eligible for state offices.
Links between the court and the outlying islands that had been affected by state priestesses were transferred into the male sphere.
In 1667, regional priestess had to be represented by a male official instead of being able to travel to Shuri themselves for important occasions.
By 1768, they could no longer receive gifts from the king in local offices, but had to instead deliver them to their homes.
The king became the major actor in rites of state, and supplanted the nūru as the central link with “Heaven.” New Ryūkyūan rites prevented women from participating in key roles.
Many of these changes were met with the resistance of the Ryūkyūan people.
Shō Shōken initially gained little support from other officials in taking steps against yuta.
Confucianism never became popular with the common people, and traditional religious practices continued in the countryside.
It is likely that the royal government had more control over the lives of peasants near major urban areas of Okinawa.
Critical voices of the government in this time included the female poet Onna Nabe, whose writings indicated a strong personal connection to onarigami.
The failure of the formal prohibition against yuta was acknowledged by government, but the government’s stated ideals would not permit repealing it.
Gregory Smits writes that this exemplified the “widening gap between an increasingly Confucianized central government and a peasantry that continued steadfast in its traditional religious beliefs and practices - with local officials caught in the middle,” (116).
In 1879, the Ryūkyū Domain was renamed Okinawa Prefecture by the Meiji government and the monarchy was abolished.
The land reforms of 1903 made land property of patrilineally organized families, which deprived village priestesses of their income, and, incidentally, some of their influence.
However, they still retained some power, especially in out-of-the way places.
The huge loss of life in World War II had an impact on Ryūkyūan religion.
There were no longer as many women available for spiritual positions, and the number of priestesses diminished dramatically.
Other women were drawn away from the traditional religion by Christian and Buddhist missionaries.
In terms of the government, the trends that began under Satsuma rule were continued through American occupation and Japanese rule.
One of the key features of the Okinawan society is an ambilineal kin group called weka.
This kin group consists of the couple and their produced offspring as well as the first and second cousins.
For women, the status of these kinship group remains with her from when she was born to her death, which is different than kinship in the rest of Japan.
Marriage does not replace a woman’s original family but instead adds a new lineage.
Women have a double membership with her biological family and her husband’s family.
The wife is accepted in the husband’s kin group when she becomes a mother.
If the mother marries someone of different clan outside of the group, she is able to return to her ancestral land for all rituals.
While some of the earliest accounts of the Ryukyuan people by Westerners suggested that it was a matriarchal society, there has not been sufficient evidence to support this.
However, supporters of the goddess hypothesis and matriarchal studies scholars such as Heide Göttner-Abendroth still view ancient Okinawa as matriarchal.
Göttner-Abendroth cites onarigami as evidence that the “ancient Japanese matriarchal culture” came from the south (147).
According to the Omoro Sōshi, Shiji is sought from the other world in the skies or over the sea (Monica, 346).
This enables women to protect the kind men, and men at war.
In addition to the high statues of being a wife, there is also the sister-brother alliances.
All of the women of the Ryukyu islands were worshipped by their brothers as Onarigami.
When the brother is away at sea they always take pieces of hair from his sister’s head, it holds a fundamental value of priestesses and goddesses in which the sister possessed to ensure protection of the voyage.
The women in the Okinanawan society are thought to have the power to blessed or curse a male’s kin.
Although they practice a patrilineal descent, the women in the household still have the spiritual power as practiced by the Onarigami.
The roles of these women in the household are to maintain the family structure as well as continuing on the ritual, such as praying on ancestral shrine.
It is usually the eldest women in the household which oftentimes are the wife or mother that performed the ritual.
Whereas the monthly rituals performed within the agrarian cycle are from the sisters of the household.
These duties are to be fulfilled until death and then the roles are transferred to the next available female of the household (Monica, 353).
In Ryūkyūan religion, a kaminchu is a person with spiritual power (seji), the ability to sense, communicate with, and direct the power of kami.
They also have obligations to kami.
According to W.P.
Lebra, a person is appointed kaminchu once it is clear that the person has spirit of high value.
Additionally, these people typically come from families of already established kaminchu and are usually the first son or first daughter of that family.
Although both men and women can have spiritual power, most kaminchu are women, in accordance with the onarigami emphasis on women’s spiritual superiority.
Kaminchu can be further broken down into other religious specialist subgroups, specifically nūru and yuta.
Noro (or nuuru) refers to a chief priestess of a community.
They are widely thought of as the embodiment of a particular kami and therefore hold a semi-divine status.
Noro are thought, in old Ryukyu, to communicate directly with “Heaven” and that heaven communicated through her (Smits, 101).
The noro are government officials and possibly could have helped in tax collection in some localities and were in charge of officiating all ceremonial affairs in the community (Smits, 115).
Additionally, the 'noro may also be in charge of officiating ceremonial affairs in neighboring villages.
Noro are, however, mainly in charge of garnering the favor of kami.
These priestesses exclusively wear white kimono as a sign of their close relationship with kami, and no other villagers are allowed to wear this color kimono.
The role was largely confined to women from certain families, and was passed on from generation to generation with the paraphernalia of sacred objects (Newman and Eng, 396).
According to Newman and Eng, at one time noro were required to be celibate.
However, these days, it is not a stringent requirement as some noro priestesses are married.
Still, these married priestesses choose to abstain from sexual relationships with their husbands during the time of important events and rituals.
Additionally, noro were governmental officials.
Yuta, female shamans or mediums, are kaminchu with the ability to see, hear, and be possessed by kami or spirits.
Because of this, they are called upon when any mysterious or unfortunate events arise and are asked to provide the cause for such events.
Yuta are not thought of as being the embodiment of a particular kami or spirit as they are ones who can see and communicate with all kami and spirits.
With regards to kami and spirits, yuta are able to do spirit mediumship, curing, exorcism, prayer, retrocognition or discerning past events, prayer, and other rituals.
As with nuru, yuta are chosen by kami.
However, they will have no prior knowledge of their position as yuta before the kami sends them signs of their position.
Also like the nuru, yuta are more often than not women.
There are some male yuta but they are not particularly trusted.
This further places emphasis on the role of women in the community.
Outside of the Ryukyuan islands, there has been a negative perception of all yuta.
Some American scholars have interpreted them as being malevolent magical practitioners or compared them to fortune tellers, and Japanese administrators even outlawed their operations at one point.
The cause of this, in part, stemmed from the yuta undermining the authority of the nuru.
However, this prohibition proved to be unsuccessful as most common people that had supported yuta before prior to the prohibition continued to support them after.
The Tanetori Festival, is a celebration of onarigami in which the sister’s prayers and the brother’s gifts is an important part.
The four days festival takes place in the tenth month of the Lunar calendar.
The religion is kept alive in varying degrees depending on the village and its inhabitants.
Monica Wacker suggests in her article on onarigami that the nuru, niigan, and chikasa will continue to fulfill their religious duties, and that particularly colorful festivals like the Tanetori Festival will survive even if more serious aspects of the religion die out.
Towards the end of the last century, there has been a revival of sorts of the idea of onarigami and its relation to the identity of women in Okinawa.
Many modern women are deeply immersed in traditional religious activities.
They know about their important historical roles as important religious figures and that through this, early Ryukyuan women were involved in the politics of men.
Of note is the Unai Festival that has developed recently.
The power of Unai has been used for political gains today, including electing a female representative into the city council of Naha in 1987.
The California Wilderness Act of 1984 is a federal law (Public Law 98-425), passed by the United States Congress on September 28, 1984, that authorized the addition of over  within the state of California to the National Wilderness Preservation System.
The historic Wilderness Act passed in 1964 provided guidelines and provisions for future wilderness additions, of which this California Act is one of.
One key provision called for evaluating roadless areas for future wilderness classification.
The US Forest Service began its evaluation in 1967 and was known as the Roadless Area Review and Evaluation or "RARE."
Each area had to be at least , have only foot trails, and be undeveloped.
The first evaluation and inventory was completed in April 1972 and after public input, a final list of 16 roadless areas came out in 1973.
This list had three-quarters of a million acres (4,000&nbsp;km²) of public land spread across 12 national forests.< <br> A second evaluation (RARE II) was done in 1977 that was more extensive and had more time for public input.
It was completed and published in 1978.
RARE II guidelines were a bit more relaxed than its predecessor.
It allowed slight traces of human impact, such as limited fencing, old fire towers and unimproved roads, as long as these traces did not disturb the "wilderness" ambiance.
This second inventory had 69 roadless areas totaling almost , 176 non-wildernesss areas of about and 118 further planning areas.
At this point in history, things got a bit complicated.
The state of California sued the US Forest Service charging that the agency's Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) process was faulty as it only had public comments from northern California and had ignored the remaining 97.5 per cent of the state's population.
<br>In a letter, Regional Forester Smith commented, </blockquote>"...On balance, I think RARE II was a success...for the first time somebody thought about what the wilderness system ought to look like when it was complete.
For the first time somebody took the time to estimate the criteria and characteristics of a complete National Wilderness Preservation System.
RARE II ...brought the question of land use, particularly wilderness, to the attention of more people in this country than any other effort.
"< </blockquote> Source: letter from Zane G. Smith, Jr to Dr. Richard P. Gayle<br> Feb.4, 1982 Box 3, 95-91-0003 National Archive Record Center San Bruno, CA The old 1978 inventory was updated and revised in 1983 but was still too controversial in many states.
It finally came down to a state-by-state basis instead of a nationwide recommendation.
The California Wilderness Act included the inventoried roadless areas from RARE II as well as other areas recommended by environmentalists.
The California Wilderness Act of 1984 contains several special provisions allowing certain uses and activities within the wilderness areas that are otherwise prohibited.
Motorized access- §101(a)(2) and (25) allow continued access for livestock facilities in two specific areas which are the Wolf Creek drainage area in the Toiyabe National Forest (Carson-Iceberg Wilderness) and the Heitz Meadow Guard Station area (San Joaquin /Ansel Adams wilderness areas)<br> §101(a)(6) allows motorized administrative use of the Buckhorn Fire Road between the contiguous areas of Dick Smith Wilderness and the San Rafael Wilderness.< <br> §101(a)(24) allows a right-of-way corridor for construction, within 10 years, of a transmission powerline.
If the powerline is constructed, the corridor will no longer be within the wilderness boundary of the San Jacinto Wilderness.
Water Infrastructure- §101(a)(25) protects rights for water diversion and use, including construction, operation, maintenance, and repair in the hydroelectric project on the North Fork San Joaquin River.
When the Wilderness Act of 1964 was being drafted California politicians were concerned about maintaining the viability of plans for a highway or tunnel connecting the Eastern Sierra and the San Joaquin Valley.
These plans centered on the Minaret Summit area as the distance between the end of Minaret Road, which runs northeast into the Sierras from North Fork, California, and the end of the Red's Meadow Road, running west from Mammoth Lakes, California is less than 10 miles.
The Act excluded an area southwest of Minaret Summit to create a corridor for this possibility.
During his time as Governor of California, Ronald Reagan made a horse packing trip into the area.
Afterwards he supported conservationists' efforts to prevent this highway.
Reagan continued his efforts after being elected President in 1980 and his influence helped the area to eventually be designated as wilderness by this legislation.
The Sierra Nevada escarpment is now a continuous wilderness from Round Mountain (near Inyokern) to Tioga Pass, a distance of about 150 miles.
The passage of the California Wilderness Act created the Siskiyou Wilderness within the Six Rivers, Klamath and Siskiyou national forests.
Within this wilderness area is a portion of the forest road connecting the towns of Gasquet and Orleans (hence the term "G-O Road") which traverses land traditionally used by Native Americans for religious practices.
The Forest Service planned to pave a section of the road and conduct a timber sale in the early 1970s .
A lawsuit filed by Native Americans to stop this road's upgrade and associated timber harvest went all the way to the US Supreme Court.
The California Wilderness Act, by designating the Siskiyou Wilderness area in 1984, made the debate a moot point as it prohibits road construction and logging.
The US Forest Service planned to upgrade and pave a segment of the road that goes through an area called Chimney Rock.
In addition, a timber harvest was also scheduled for this area.
In 1975, the Forest Service released a draft environmental impact statement (DEIS) as required by the National Environmental Policy Act, or NEPA.
In response to public comments received on the environmental statement, including consideration of other routes and appeals by the Sierra Club and a group of Native Americans, the Secretary of Agriculture, Richard E. Lyng, supported the Chief Forester and Regional Forester's decision favoring the Chimney Rock Corridor.< <br> In 1977 the Forest Service issued a second DEIS for construction of the G-O Road.
After public discussion on this second DEIS, the Forest Service hired an external, professional anthropological consulting firm called Theodoratus Cultural Research, to estimate the effect of building the G-O Road and harvesting timber in the Chimney Rock Section of the Six Rivers National Forest.
Theodoratus Cultural Research, Inc. reported that a cultural conflict existed between Indian religious activity and Forest Service management practices.
They concluded that "intrusions on the sanctity of the...high country are .
.
.
potentially destructive of the very core of Northwest [Indian] religious beliefs and practices."
They recommended against completing the G-O Road.
In 1982, the Forest Service decided not to adopt this recommendation, and it prepared a final environmental impact statement for construction of the road.
Several groups, including a Native American organization and individuals, nature organizations, and the State of California—challenged both the roadbuilding and timber harvesting decisions in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.
Respondents claimed that the Forest Service's decisions violated the Free Exercise of Religion Clause in the First Amendment, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA), the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), and several other federal statutes.
After trial, the District Court issued a permanent injunction prohibiting the Forest Service from constructing the Chimney Rock section of the G-O road or putting the timber harvesting management plan into effect.
(Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Assn.
v. Peterson, 565 F.Supp.
The court found that both actions would violate the Free Exercise Clause because they "would seriously damage the salient visual, aural, and environmental qualities of the high country."
The court also found that both proposed actions would violate the FWPCA, and that the environmental impact statements for construction of the road were deficient under the NEPA.
Finally, the court concluded that both projects would breach the Government's trust responsibilities to protect water and fishing rights reserved for Native Americans of Hoopa Valley.
The Forest Service appealed the decision.
While an appeal was pending before the US Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, the California Wilderness Act of 1984 was passed, which means that timber harvesting, and road construction are forbidden.
The Ninth Circuit Court upheld the lower court's decision.
In 1987 The US Supreme court heard arguments in the case, and overturned the lower court's rulings by a 5-3 decision.
Justice O'Connor wrote the majority opinion which basically stated that the First Amendment rights of the Native Americans have not been violated because the actions of the Forest Service do not prohibit the practice of religion.
<br> As stated in the Opinion: " This does not and cannot imply that incidental effects of government programs, which may make it more difficult to practice certain religions but which have no tendency to coerce individuals into acting contrary to their religious beliefs, require government to bring forward a compelling justification for its otherwise lawful actions.
The crucial word in the constitutional text is "prohibit"..." Justice Brennan wrote the dissenting opinion, stating,"I thus cannot accept the Court's premise that the form of the government's restraint on religious practice, rather than its effect, controls our constitutional analysis.
Respondents here have demonstrated that construction of the G-O road will completely frustrate the practice of their religion, for, as the lower courts found, the proposed logging and construction activities will virtually destroy respondents' religion, and will therefore necessarily force them into abandoning those practices altogether.
Islam in Bosnia and Herzegovina has a rich and longstanding history in the country, having been introduced to the local population in the 15th and 16th centuries as a result of the Ottoman conquest of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The Bosniaks are predominantly Muslim by religion, for which reason they have also been emphasized as "Bosnian Muslims" throughout their history, a term which thus also implies ethnic belonging.
The vast majority of Muslim Bosniaks are traditionally Sunni Muslims who subscribe to the Hanafi school of jurisprudence, although more recently small minorities of Shia Muslims subscribing to the Twelvers school of thought have also emerged in the country.
There are around 3 million Muslim Bosniaks, taking into account historic emigrations and the large diaspora that had left the country during the Bosnian War in the 1990s.
An estimated 1.55 million still reside in their native Bosnia and Herzegovina where they constitute 40 percent of the country's overall population.
As such, Muslim Bosniaks comprise the single largest religious community in Bosnia and Herzegovina (the other two large groups being Eastern Orthodox Christians (31%), mostly Serbs, and Roman Catholics (15%), mostly Croats) and form one and the same ethnoreligious community with Bosniaks in the neighboring Sandžak region of Serbia and Montenegro.
Other small, non-Bosniak, minority groups of Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina include Albanians, Roma people and Turks.
Islam was first brought to the Balkans by the Ottomans in the mid-to-late 15th century who gained control of most of Bosnia in 1463, and seized Herzegovina in the 1480s.
Over the next century, the Bosnians - composed of dualists and Slavic tribes living in the Bosnian kingdom under the name of Bošnjani  - embraced Islam in great numbers under Ottoman rule which also saw the name Bošnjanin transform into Bošnjak ('Bosniak').
By the early 1600s, approximately two thirds of the population of Bosnia were Muslim.
Bosnia and Herzegovina remained a province in the Ottoman Empire and gained autonomy after the Bosnian uprising in 1831.
After the 1878 Congress of Berlin it came under the temporary control of Austria-Hungary.
In 1908, Austria-Hungary formally annexed the region.
Bosnia, along with Albania, were the only parts of the Ottoman Empire in the Balkans where large numbers of people were converted to Islam, and remained there after independence.
In other areas of the former Ottoman Empire where Muslims formed the majority or started to form the majority, those Muslims were either expelled, assimilated/Christianized, massacred, or fled elsewhere (Muhajirs).
The ethnic cleansing of Bosnian Muslims during the Bosnian war caused a profound internal displacement of their population within Bosnia-Herzegovina, resulting in the almost complete segregation of the country's religious communities into separate ethno-religious areas.
The rate of returning refugees was markedly slowed down by 2003-2004, leaving the majority of Serbian Orthodox adherents living in the Republika Srpska and the majority of Muslims and Catholics still living in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Within the Federation, distinct Muslim and Catholic majority areas remain.
However, the return of Serbian Orthodox adherents and Muslims to their prewar homes in Western Bosnia Canton and Muslims to their prewar homes in eastern Bosnia near Srebrenica have shifted the ethno-religious composition in both areas.
Throughout Bosnia, mosques were systematically destroyed by Serb and Croat armed forces.
Among the most important losses were two mosques in Banja Luka, Arnaudija and Ferhadija mosque, that were on the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) register of world cultural monuments.
Religious leaders from the three major faiths claim that observance is increasing among younger persons as an expression of increased identification with their ethnic heritage, in large part due to the national religious revival that occurred as a result of the Bosnian war.
Many Muslim women have adopted Islamic dress styles that had not been common, especially in cities, before the war.
Leaders from the three main religious communities observed that they enjoy greater support from their believers in rural areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina rather than urban centres such as the capital Sarajevo or Banja Luka.
In Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are eight Muftis located in major municipalities across the country: Sarajevo, Bihać, Travnik, Tuzla, Goražde, Zenica, Mostar, and Banja Luka.
The acting head of the Islamic Community of Bosnia and Herzegovina is Husein Kavazović.
In a 1998 public opinion poll, 78.3% of Bosniaks in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina declared themselves to be religious.
For a few number of Bosniaks that identify themselves as Bosnian Muslims, religion often serves as a community linkage, and religious practice is confined to occasional visits to the mosque or significant rites of passage such as birth, marriage, and death.
Headscarves for women, or the hijab is worn only by a minority of Bosniak women, and otherwise mostly for religious obligations.
Bosnians who participate in or are children of ethnically mixed marriages between the Bosniak, Serb and Croat populations in Bosnia and Herzegovina are often irreligious.
The State Constitution provides freedom of religion, and individuals generally enjoy this right in ethnically mixed areas or in areas where they were adherents of the majority religion.
Religious education in Bosnia and Herzegovina is largely decentralized, as is the education system generally.
The canton and entity governments and the Brčko District authorities have responsibility for education; there is no national education ministry or policy.
Public schools offer religious education classes, but with the exception of Brcko, schools generally offer religious instruction only in the area's majority religion.
In theory, students have the option not to attend, but in practice, students of the majority religion face pressure from teachers and peers to attend the classes.
For example, the RS requires Serbs to attend religion classes but does not require attendance for Bosniaks and Croats.
If more than 20 Bosniaks or Croats attend a particular school in the RS, the school is required to organize religion classes on their behalf.
However, in the rural RS, there is usually no qualified religious representative available to teach religious studies to the handful of Bosniak or Croat students.
It is similar in the Federation, where students of the ethnic majority are required to attend religious classes, either Bosniak or Croat, while the minority is not required to attend.
In the Federation's five cantons with Bosniak majorities, schools offer Islamic religious instruction as a 2-hour-per-week elective course.
Acts of anti-Semitism against the small Bosnian Jewish community in the country are practically non-existent.
However, Jewish leaders state that there is a growing tendency in the country to mix anti-Israeli sentiment with rare acts of anti-Semitism.
Following the 2003 Istanbul Bombings, the Jewish community was quickly granted police security at its synagogues and no incidents were reported.
The government's census bureau today does not collect data on religious affiliation and the percentages given are the estimates in the U.N. Development Program's Human Development Report 2002 as quoted by the Bosnia and Herzegovina report.
<gallery> File:Bruner-Dvorak, Rudolf - Bosna, medresa 2 (ca 1906).j jpg|Bosnian Madrasa ca.
1906 File:Bruner-Dvorak, Rudolf - Bosna, Cazin, mesita (ca 1906).j jpg|Mosque, Cazin, ca.
1906 File:Bosniak imam.jpg|Bosniak military imam in the Austro-Hungarian Army File:Šarena džamija.jpg|Mosque, Travnik, constructed 1438 File:Sarajevo, ulaz u medresu.jpg|Gazi Husrev-beg madrasa, Sarajevo, constructed 1537 File:94420-Saravejo (8268281437).j jpg|Baščaršija Mosque, Sarajevo, constructed 1561 File:Pocitelj Panorama.JPG|Mosque, Počitelj, constructed 1561 File:Džamija, Mostar040845.JPG|Mosque, Mostar, from the 17th century File:Tuzla, hornicka mesita (drevena, 18. jpg|Wooden mosque, Tuzla, from the 18th century File:Srebrenica-Potočari Memorial Center 2008.j jpg|Muslim gravestones at the Potočari genocide memorial near Srebrenica File:HuseinovicSadik.jpg|Gravemarker of a 13-year-old Muslim boy killed in the Srebrenica massacre 1995 File:Bombed mosque in Ahmici.jpg|Mosque destroyed during the Ahmići massacre 1993 File:Bugojno3.JPG|Post-war Islamic centre and mosque, Bugojno |Post-war mosque, Žepče File:Koševo Shahid Šehidsko Mezarje Sarajevo 2010.j jpg|Muslim cemetery, Sarajevo File:P1020297 (20053411).j
Police v. City of Newark, 170 F.3d 359 (3d Cir.
1999), is a case that was argued before the Third Circuit Court of Appeals on 1998-06-25 and decided on 1999-03-03.
The decision was inspected during the Samuel Alito Supreme Court nomination.
In this case, the Police Department of City of Newark had ordered its police officers to be clean-shaven; however, it made an exception for medical conditions.
Two Muslim members of the police asserted a religious belief that required them to maintain beards, and filed a lawsuit complaining that their freedom of religion was being violated.
The District Court ruled in their favor, and it was affirmed by the Third Circuit, which found that the city had failed to provide a substantial justification for refusing to make accommodation for religious belief in this policy.
J. Anderson Thomson, Jr. is an American psychiatrist and writer.
He is a Trustee of the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science and a staff psychiatrist for Counseling and Psychological Services at the University of Virginia Student Health Center, as well as the University of Virginia's Institute for Law, Psychiatry and Public Policy.
Thomson also has his own private practice, and is a forensic psychiatrist for Region Ten Community Services.
Thomson acquired his B.A.
from Duke University in 1970, he acquired his M.D.
from the University of Virginia in 1974, and he did his adult psychiatry training at the University of Virginia from 1974 to 1977.
Thomson has published papers on a variety of issues, including racism, narcissistic personality disorder, forensic psychiatry, depression and PTSD.
He is known for his work on evolutionary psychology, as well as for his exploration of the cognitive and evolutionary basis of religious belief, as presented in his latest book entitled Why We Believe in God(s): A Concise Guide to the Science of Faith.
Thomson has been a featured speaker at several atheist conferences including American Atheists 2009 and Atheist Alliance International 2009 for which he spoke about his theories on the cognitive origins of religious belief.
In an interview with the Austin American-Statesman, Thomson stated, "There is a massive, irreconcilable conflict between science and religion.
Religion was humanity's original cosmology, biology and anthropology.
It provided explanations for the origin of the world, life and humans.
Science now gives us increasingly complete explanations for those big three."
Asenby is a village and civil parish in the Harrogate district of North Yorkshire, England, with a population of 285 (2001 census), increasing to 311 at the 2011 census.
The village is about miles south-west of Thirsk and miles east of Ripon.
It is south of the County Town of Northallerton on the south bank of the River Swale.
The village is mentioned in the Domesday Book as Estanebi in the Yarlestre hundred.
It was part of the manor of Topcliffe at the time of the Norman invasion and followed the descent of that manor thereafter.
The topynomy of the village name is the combination of the Norse personal name of Eystein and bi giving the meaning of Eystein's farm.
The village lies within the Skipton and Ripon UK Parliament constituency.
It is also within the Wathvale war of Harrogate Borough District Council and the Mashams and Fountains electoral division of North Yorkshire County Council.
The local Parish Council has five members.
The village lies on the south bank of the River Swale and wedged in between the A168 and A167 roads.
The majority of the surrounding land in the parish is given to farming.
The village is mostly housing with one public house on the outskirts.
There is no church in the parish.
Of the total population, 97.5% declared themselves as White/British with the rest being White/Other.
The gender split was 50.8% male to 49.2% female.
The declaration of religious belief was 77.9% Christian, 20.7% No religion/Not stated and 1% Jewish and 1% Other.
Of the total population, 97.1% declared themselves as White/British with 1.6% being White/Other.
The rest were made of 0.6% mixed White/Asian, 0.3% White/Irish and 0.1% British Asian.
The gender split was 51.4% male to 48.6% female.
The declaration of religious belief was 72.7% Christian, 25.7% No religion/Not stated and 1.6% Buddhist.
The Constitution of Chad provides for freedom of religion; however, at times, the Government limited this right for certain groups.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
The different religious communities generally coexisted without problems, although some tensions between different Muslim groups and between Muslims and Christians were reported.
The country has an area of and a population of 9,885,700.
More than half of the population is Muslim, approximately one-third is Christian, and the remainder practice traditional indigenous religious beliefs or no religion at all .
Most northerners practice Islam, and many southerners practice Christianity or traditional indigenous religious beliefs; however, population patterns are becoming more complex, especially in urban areas, and anecdotal evidence indicates that Muslim conversion is on the rise in areas that were previously Christian or animist.
Many citizens, despite having stated religious affiliations, do not practice their religion regularly.
The vast majority of Muslims are adherents of a moderate branch of mystical Islam known locally as Tijaniyah, which incorporates some local African religious elements.
A small minority of Muslims (5 to 10 percent) hold more fundamentalist beliefs, which in some cases may be associated with Saudi-oriented belief systems such as Wahhabism or Salafism.
Roman Catholics represent the largest Christian denomination in the country.
Most Protestants, including the Nigeria-based "Winners Chapel," are affiliated with various evangelical Christian groups.
Members of the Baha'i and Jehovah's Witnesses religious communities also are present.
Both religious groups were introduced after independence in 1960 and therefore are considered "new" religious groups.
Foreign missionaries representing numerous religious groups continue to proselytize in the country.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion; however, the Government banned the religious group Al Faid al-Djaria and indirectly monitors Islamic activities through the pro-Government High Islamic Council.
The Constitution also provides that the country shall be a secular state; however, some policies favor Islam in practice.
For example, a committee composed of members of the High Council for Islamic Affairs and the Directorate of Religious Affairs in the Ministry of the Interior organizes the Hajj and the Umra.
In the past the Association of Evangelical Churches criticized government-sponsored Hajj trips as eroding the traditionally secular stance of the country.
While the Government is legally obligated to treat all religious groups or denominations equally, non-Muslims allege that Muslims receive preferential status.
In the past the Government reportedly accorded public lands to Muslim leaders for the purpose of building mosques but required representatives of other religious groups to purchase land at market rates to build places of worship.
The Director of Religious and Traditional Affairs oversees religious matters.
Working under the Minister of the Interior, the Director of Religious and Traditional Affairs is responsible for arbitrating intercommunal conflicts and ensuring religious freedom.
The Director also monitors religious practices within the secular state.
An independent religious organization, the High Council for Islamic Affairs, oversees all Islamic religious activities, including the supervision of Arabic language schools and higher institutions and the representation of the country in international Islamic meetings.
The High Council for Islamic Affairs, in coordination with the president, also has the responsibility of appointing the grand imam--a spiritual leader for all Muslims in the country who oversees each region's high imam and serves as head of the council.
In principle, the grand imam has the authority to restrict proselytizing by other Islamic groups throughout the country, regulate the content of mosque sermons, and exert control over activities of Islamic charities operating in the country.
The current grand imam, Sheikh Hissein Hassan Abakar, a representative of the generally moderate Sufi (Tijaniyah) branch of Islam, is viewed as a generally moderate religious figure.
He has had his authority challenged by followers of other sects of Islam who adhere to more fundamentalist teachings derived from eastern and northern Africa and the Middle East.
Religious leaders are also involved in managing the country's wealth.
A representative of the religious community sits on the Revenue Management College, the body that oversees the allocation of oil revenues.
The seat rotates between Muslim and Christian leaders every 4 years.
In 2004 the Muslim representative handed responsibilities over to a Catholic priest designated by the Christian community.
The mandate of the Christian representative at the College ended in June 2007; at the end of the reporting period, the College had not named the Muslim representative for the next 4 years, but a decision was expected soon.
The Government requires religious groups, including both foreign missionary groups and domestic religious groups, to register with the Ministry of the Interior's Department of Religious Affairs.
The Department created two separate services (Muslim and Christian) during the reporting period.
Registration takes place without discrimination and is interpreted as official recognition.
Despite popular perceptions to the contrary, registration is not intended to confer tax preferences or other benefits to religious groups.
The Government prohibits activity that "does not create conditions of cohabitation among the populations."
This prohibition is understood to mean regulating groups who advocate sectarian tensions in the country.
During the period covered by this report, the Government banned the Al Mountada al Islami and the World Association for Muslim Youth for portraying violence as a legitimate precept of Islam.
Generally, foreign missionaries did not face restrictions; however, they must register and receive authorization from the Ministry of Interior to circulate within the country, as do other foreigners traveling and operating throughout the country.
There were no reports that the Government withheld authorization from any group.
Public schools conduct instruction in French, and public bilingual schools conduct classes in French and Arabic.
The Government prohibits religious instruction in public schools but permits all religious groups to operate private schools without restriction.
The poor quality of Chad's educational system has prompted many Muslim families to look to Islamic schools as an opportunity for educating children who would otherwise have little or no access to formal schooling.
Most large towns have at least one or two private religious schools.
Although the Government does not publish official records on school funding, many Islamic schools were commonly understood to be financed by Arab donors (governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and individuals), particularly from Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and Libya.
In the past several human rights organizations have reported on the problem of the mahadjirin children, students of certain Islamic schools who are forced by their teachers to beg for food and money.
There were no credible estimates as to the number of mahadjirin children.
The High Council for Islamic Affairs appealed for an immediate end to such practices, and the Government called for the closure of such schools.
Despite attempted reforms, the schools remained open during the reporting period.
Among the numerous private radio stations, religious organizations own several stations broadcasting throughout the country (six Christian and two Islamic).
Officials closely monitored radio stations run by both nonprofit and commercial groups.
The Government celebrates both Christian and Islamic holy days as national holidays.
Islamic national holidays include Eid al-Adha, the Birth of the Prophet Muhammad, and Eid al-Fitr.
Christian holidays include Easter Monday, All Saints' Day, and Christmas Day.
It is not uncommon for Muslims and Christians to attend each other's festivities during these holidays.
While most interfaith dialogue takes place on a voluntary basis and not through government intervention, the Government was generally supportive of these initiatives.
On March 8, 2007, the Government initiated a campaign for peace, and Christian organizations organized a peaceful march to support the initiative.
The Muslim religious establishment also attended, specifically the Imam of the grand mosque on behalf of the High Council of Islamic Affairs.
Al Faid al-Djaria (also spelled Al Faydal Djaria), a Sufi group that adheres to a mystical form of Islam and is found in the Kanem, Lake Chad, and Chari Baguirimi areas, continued to be banned during the period covered by this report.
The Director of Religious and Traditional Affairs, the High Council for Islamic Affairs, and certain Ulema (Muslim religious authorities) objected to some of Al Faid al-Djaria's customs, such as the incorporation of singing, dancing, and the intermixing of sexes during religious ceremonies, which they deemed un-Islamic.
During the reporting period, the Minister of Interior's 2001 ban on Al Faid al-Djaria continued as the group's case remained in court; however, the group still carried out activities in the Chari Baguirmi region of the country.
The Government is believed to monitor some Islamic organizations, such as the Salafi/Wahhabi group Ansar al Sunna, which were well funded by Arab donors and able to use money and other material incentives to encourage adherence to their more austere interpretation of Islam.
There were no reports of religious detainees or prisoners in the country.
There were no reports of forced religious conversion carried out by the Government; however, there were reports of forced conversions of prisoners to Islam by other prisoners.
Reports of such cases are disputed and many observers, including human rights groups, find it extremely difficult to determine whether compulsion was used.
According to the Government, such cases are due to the violent nature of certain groups within the jail, who use violence against other prisoners and try to extort money.
There were no reports of the forced religious conversion of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice, although there was occasional tension between Christians and Muslims as well as between more fundamentalist and more moderate Muslims.
During the period covered by this report, there were regular meetings between key religious leaders to discuss peaceful collaboration among their groups.
In April 2007 the Association of Evangelical Churches appealed to the Government for additional assistance in ending the conflict between nomadic herders (who are primarily Muslim) and local farmers (who are primarily Christian) in the southern part of the country; however, the Government did not respond to the appeal.
In January 2007 the Catholic Church and Association of Evangelical Churches sent a second official protest to the Government for its failure to respond to a February 2006 rally against the Danish cartoons that resulted in damage to several Christian properties and injury to an evangelical missionary.
The Government did not officially respond to the complaint during the reporting period.
The marketplace violence between Christians and Muslims in the southern town of Bebedja that resulted in 12 dead and 21 wounded in 2004 remained a source of tension among the local populace.
Some victims accused the Government of failing to investigate the cases thoroughly and conduct proper trials.
There were reports of tensions within the Muslim community.
Such tensions arose from differences between the Tijaniyahs leading the High Council for Islamic Affairs and more fundamentalist groups regarding interpretations of practices, preaching, and the leading of prayers.
Most interfaith dialogues that attempted to address Christian-Muslim and Muslim-Muslim tensions were facilitated by the groups themselves and not through government intervention.
During the reporting period, religious groups met regularly to try to resolve sources of tension and promote greater collaboration.
During these encounters, leaders discussed problems of peaceful cohabitation, tolerance, and respect for religious freedom.
These dialogues were usually initiated by the Commission for Peace and Justice (CDPJ), a Catholic organization, and both Christian and non-Christian groups participated.
CDPJ also held events that brought together members of the Islamic and Christian communities to discuss issues such as child domestics and herders.
During the reporting period, there were no reports of tension between Christians and Muslims in reaction to proselytizing of traditional believers by evangelical Christians.
Terence Copley (19 August 1946 – 17 January 2011)[1] was a British academic and author.
Terence Copley was Professor of Educational Studies (Religious Education) at the University of Oxford, England and also Emeritus Professor of Religious Education at the University of Exeter, England.
He was Professor of Religious Education at the University of Exeter from 1997 until 2007.
Before that, he was a Religious Education teacher and then deputy headteacher of a comprehensive school.
He was a well-known speaker at academic conferences and teacher training provision.
His writings cover the history of Religious Education and 'spiritual development' in state-maintained schools in England and Wales and methods of teaching biblical narrative in primary and secondary schools.
Copley has also published a biography of Thomas Arnold in which he challenged T. W. Bamford's long standing interpretation of Arnold, set forth in Bamford's writings in the 1960s and 70s, and instead upheld the more favourable view of Arnold's legacy put forth by Archer in the 1920s.
Copley was a significant Christian educationist who argues that a process of secular indoctrination is occurring in British society in which vocal secularists are using the media to exclude religion from the public square.
By contrast, Copley argues for religious values to be instilled in young people through state-maintained schooling.
His work includes the BIBLOS project on teaching the Bible in a secular environment.
As well as writing for academics'and teachers, he has written a number of books for children.
He had a Methodist background but had been a Quaker for many decades.
In 2008 he received a Lambeth degree of DD from the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Terence Copley had been a key figure in the life and thinking of the Religious Education community in recent decades.
[ [2] He died from cancer on Tuesday, 17 January 2011.
His funeral was held on Thursday, 27 January 2011 in Devon.
Jacob Liboschütz was a Russian physician; born in 1741.
He died in Vilna on 10 February 1827.
After studying at the University of Halle he went to St. Petersburg.
His religious belief, however, rendered it impossible for him to settle there, and he established himself at Vilna, where he became celebrated.
When the famous physician Professor Frank was leaving Vilna and was asked in whose charge he had left the public health, he answered, "In the charge of God and the Jew" ("Deus et Judeus," meaning "God and Liboschütz").
Liboschütz was celebrated also as a diplomat and philanthropist (Fuenn, Kiryah Ne'emanah, p.&nbsp;260, Vilna, 1860).
The Constitution of the Republic of Mauritius ( ) is the supreme law of Mauritius, according to Chapter I, Section 2 of the constitution, if any other law is inconsistent with this Constitution, that other law shall, to the extent of the inconsistency, be void.
The current Constitution was adopted in 1968.
It defines Mauritius as a sovereign democratic State which shall be known as the Republic of Mauritius.
The Constitution guarantees to the citizen his fundamental rights: right to liberty and protection of the law, freedom of conscience, freedom of association, of movement and of opinion, freedom of expression, freedom of creed and of religious belief as well as the right to private property.
The Constitution establishes clearly the separation of powers between the legislative, the executive and the judiciary.
The Devil's Delusion: Atheism and Its Scientific Pretensions is a 2009 book by David Berlinski.
It discusses atheism and religion, defending the religious point of view.
A review by the Christian Apologetics Alliance stated: "Berlinski’s biography and book raises at least two questions: first, given the book’s powerful arguments in favor of religious belief, why is the author not religious?
And second, given that the author is not religious, doesn’t this spirited defense of religion deserve an honest hearing?"
Writing in Touchstone Magazine, Matthew Dowling said: "The Devil's Delusion is appropriate for the pastor and scholar, and for all those who are interested in an academic's response to the New Atheism.
Berlinski's writing is well informed, pointed, and highly entertaining."
Bira is an all-night ritual, celebrated by Shona people from Zimbabwe in which members of an extended family call on ancestral spirits for guidance and intercession.
The attendees at a ceremony participate in singing, dancing and hand clapping.
The two mbira players are joined by a player on a pair of gourd shakers (hosho), which emphasize the underlying triplet beat.
The mbira playing and singing are all improvised off the familiar basic patterns, resulting in a constantly changing polyphonic texture.
In this ceremony, music that was favored by the ancestors when they were alive is used to summon the spirits to possess living mediums; thus the religious belief system helps to preserve older musical practices.
Kasba is a village located in Durgapur subdivision of Bardhaman district in the Indian state of West Bengal It is about 14&nbsp;km from Panagarh Railway station/NH2 and 14&nbsp;km from Budbud NH2.
The place is in the bank of River Damodor and is known for its Shiv mandir to people from religious belief.
Kasba Radharani vidyamandir is the Higher Secondary School located in Kasba and serving nearby villages like Fatespur, Sodpur, Kasba Mana, Jahan pur, Mugram etc.
It has one of the fastest growing market in the vicinity.
The majority of the population of East Timor is Catholic, and the Catholic Church is the dominant religious institution.
There are also small Protestant and Sunni Muslim communities.
According to a 2005 World Bank report, 98 percent of the population is Catholic, 1 percent Protestant, and less than 1 percent Muslim.
Most citizens also retain some vestiges of animistic beliefs and practices, which they have come to regard as more cultural than religious.
The number of Protestants and Muslims declined significantly after September 1999 because these groups were disproportionately represented among supporters of integration with Indonesia and among the Indonesian civil servants assigned to work in the province from other parts of Indonesia, many of whom left the country in 1999.
The Indonesian military forces formerly stationed in the country included a significant number of Protestants, who played a major role in establishing Protestant churches in the territory.
Fewer than half of those congregations existed after September 1999, and many Protestants were among those who remained in West Timor.
The Assemblies of God is the largest and most active of the Protestant denominations.
The country had a significant Muslim population during the Indonesian occupation, composed mostly of ethnic Malay immigrants from Indonesian islands.
There were also a few ethnic East Timorese converts to Islam, as well as a small number descended from Arab Muslims living in the country while it was under Portuguese authority.
The latter group was well integrated into society, but ethnic Malay Muslims at times were not.
Only a small number of ethnic Malay Muslims remained.
Domestic and foreign missionary groups operated freely.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice.
Societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice occur, but they are relatively infrequent.
The Roman Catholic Church in East Timor is part of the worldwide Roman Catholic Church, under the spiritual leadership of the Pope in Rome.
There are over 900,000 Catholics in East Timor, a legacy of its status as a former Portuguese colony.
Since its independence from Indonesia, East Timor became only the second predominantly Catholic country in Asia (after the Philippines) - approximately 96% of the population is Roman Catholic.
The country is divided into three dioceses; Dili, Maliana and Baucau, all of which are immediately subject to the Holy See.
The Apostolic Nuncio to East Timor is concurrently the nuncio to Malaysia.
The current nuncio is the US archbishop Joseph Salvador Marino, and the nunciature is located in Kuala Lumpur.
In the early 16th century, Portuguese and Dutch traders made contact with East Timor.
Missionaries maintained a sporadic contact until 1642 when Portugal took over and maintained control until 1974, with a brief occupation by Japan during World War II.
Pope John Paul II visited East Timor in October 1989.
Pope John Paul II had spoken out against violence in East Timor, and called for both sides to show restraint, imploring the East Timorese to "love and pray for their enemies."
Retired bishop Carlos Ximenes Belo is a winner of the Nobel Peace Prize along with José Ramos-Horta in 1996 for their attempts to free East Timor from Indonesia.
The Roman Catholic Church remains very involved in politics, with its 2005 confrontations with the government over religious education in school and the forgoing of war crimes trials for atrocities against East Timorese by Indonesia.
They have also endorsed the new Prime Minister in his efforts to promote national reconciliation.
In June 2006 Catholic Relief Services received aid from the United States to help victims of months of unrest in the country.
Islam is a minority religion in East Timor.
The US State Department and the CIA World Factbook estimate that Muslims make up 0.3% of the population.
East Timor's first prime minister, Mari Alkatiri, is a Sunni Muslim.
A festival is an event ordinarily celebrated by a community and centering on some characteristic aspect of that community and its religion or traditions, often marked as a local or national holiday, mela or eid.
Next to religion and folklore, a significant origin is agricultural.
Food is such a vital resource that many festivals are associated with harvest time.
Religious commemoration and thanksgiving for good harvests are blended in events that take place in autumn, such as Halloween in the northern hemisphere and Easter in the southern.
Festivals often serve to fulfill specific communal purposes, especially in regard to commemoration or thanksgiving.
The celebrations offer a sense of belonging for religious, social, or geographical groups, contributing to group cohesiveness.
They may also provide entertainment, which was particularly important to local communities before the advent of mass-produced entertainment.
Festivals that focus on cultural or ethnic topics also seek to inform community members of their traditions; the involvement of elders sharing stories and experience provides a means for unity among families.
In Ancient Greece and Rome, festivals such as the Saturnalia were closely associated with social organisation and political processes as well as religion.
</ref> In modern times, festivals may be attended by strangers such as tourists, who are attracted to some of the more eccentric or historical ones.
The word "festival" was originally used as an adjective from the late fourteenth century, deriving from Latin via Old French.
In Middle English, a "festival dai" was a religious holiday.
Its first recorded used as a noun was in 1589 (as "Festifall").
Feast first came into usage as a noun circa 1200, and its first recorded use as a verb was circa 1300.
The term "feast" is also used in common secular parlance as a synonym for any large or elaborate meal.
When used as in the meaning of a festival, most often refers to a religious festival rather than a film or art festival.
In the Philippines and many other former Spanish colonies, the Spanish word fiesta is used to denote a communal religious feast to honor a patron saint.
Many festivals have religious origins and entwine cultural and religious significance in traditional activities.
The most important religious festivals such as Christmas, Hanukkah, Diwali and Eid al-Adha serve to mark out the year.
Others, such as harvest festivals, celebrate seasonal change.
Events of historical significance, such as important military victories or other nation-building events also provide the impetus for a festival.
An early example is the festival established by Ancient Egyptian Pharaoh Rameses III celebrating his victory over the Libyans.
In many countries, royal holidays commemorate dynastic events just as agricultural holidays are about harvests.
Festivals are often commemorated annually.
There are numerous types of festivals in the world and most countries celebrate important events or traditions with traditional cultural events and activities.
Most culminate in the consumption of specially prepared food (showing the connection to "feasting") and they bring people together.
Festivals are also strongly associated with national holidays.
Lists of national festivals are published to make participation easier.
Among many religions, a feast is a set of celebrations in honour of God or gods.Ancient Egyptian festivals could be either religious or political.
</ref> A feast and a festival are historically interchangeable.
Most religions have festivals that recur annually and some, such as Passover, Easter and Eid al-Adha are moveable feasts - that is, those that are determined either by lunar or agricultural cycles or the calendar in use at the time.
The Sed festival, for example, celebrated the thirtieth year of an Egyptian pharaoh's rule and then every three (or four in one case) years after that.
In the Christian liturgical calendar there are two principal feasts, properly known as the Feast of the Nativity of our Lord (Christmas) and the Feast of the Resurrection, (Easter).
In the Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, and Anglican liturgical calendars there are a great number of lesser feasts throughout the year commemorating saints, sacred events or doctrines.
Buddhist religious festivals, such as Esala Perahera are held in Sri Lanka and Thailand.
Hindu festivals, such as Holi are very ancient.
The Sikh community celebrates the Vaisakhi festival marking the new year and birth of the Khalsa.
Among the many offspring of general arts festivals are also more specific types of festivals, including ones that showcase intellectual or creative achievement such as science festivals, literary festivals and music festivals.
Sub-categories include comedy festivals, rock festivals, jazz festivals and buskers festivals; poetry festivals, theatre festivals, and storytelling festivals; and re-enactment festivals such as Renaissance fairs.
Film festivals involve the screenings of several different films, and are usually held annually.
Some of the most significant film festivals include the Berlin International Film Festival, the Venice Film Festival and the Cannes Film Festival.
A food festival is an event celebrating food or drink.
These often highlight the output of producers from a certain region.
Some food festivals are focused on a particular item of food, such as the National Peanut Festival in the United States, or the Galway International Oyster Festival in Ireland.
There are also specific beverage festivals, such as the famous Oktoberfest in Germany for beer.
Many countries hold festivals to celebrate wine.
One example is the global celebration of the arrival of Beaujolais nouveau, which involves shipping the new wine around the world for its release date on the third Thursday of November each year.
Both Beaujolais nouveau and the Japanese rice wine sake are associated with harvest time.
Seasonal festivals, such as Beltane, are determined by the solar and the lunar calendars and by the cycle of the seasons, especially because of its effect on food supply, as a result of which there is a wide range of ancient and modern harvest festivals.
Ancient Egyptians relied upon the seasonal inundation caused by the Nile River, a form of irrigation, which provided fertile land for crops.
In the Alps, in autumn the return of the cattle from the mountain pastures to the stables in the valley is celebrated as Almabtrieb.
A recognized winter festival, the Chinese New Year, is set by the lunar calendar, and celebrated from the day of the second new moon after the winter solstice.
Dree Festival of the Apatanis living in Lower Subansiri District of Arunachal Pradesh is celebrated every year from July 4 to 7 by praying for a bumper crop harvest.
Midsummer or St John's Day, is an example of a seasonal festival, related to the feast day of a Christian saint as well as a celebration of the time of the summer solstice in the northern hemisphere, where it is particularly important in Sweden.
Winter carnivals also provide the opportunity to utilise to celebrate creative or sporting activities requiring snow and ice.
Nontheistic religions are traditions of thought within religions—some otherwise aligned with theism, others not—in which nontheism informs religious beliefs or practices.
Nontheism has been applied to the fields of Christian apologetics and general liberal theology, and plays significant roles in Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism.
While many approaches to religion exclude nontheism by definition, there are some inclusive definitions that show how religious practice and belief do not depend on the presence of god(s).
For example, Paul James and Peter Mandaville distinguish between religion and spirituality, but provide a definition of the term that avoids the usual reduction to "religions of the book": The Buddha said that devas (translated as "gods") do exist, but they were regarded as still being trapped in samsara, and are not necessarily wiser than us.
In fact, the Buddha is often portrayed as a teacher of the gods, and superior to them.
Since the time of the Buddha, the refutation of the existence of a creator deity has been seen as a key point in distinguishing Buddhist from non-Buddhist views.
The question of an independent creator deity was answered by Buddha in the Brahmajala Sutta.
The Buddha denounced the view of a creator and sees that such notions are related to the false view of eternalism, and like the 61 other views, this belief causes suffering when one is attached to it and states these views may lead to desire, aversion and delusion.
At the end of the Sutta the Buddha says he knows these 62 views and he also knows the truth that surpasses them.
On one occasion, when presented with a problem of metaphysics by the monk Malunkyaputta, Buddha responded with the Parable of the Poison Arrow.
When a man is shot with an arrow thickly smeared with poison, his family summons the doctor to have the poison removed, and the doctor gives an antidote: A few liberal Christian theologians, define a "nontheistic God" as "the ground of all being" rather than as a personal divine being.
John Shelby Spong refers to a theistic God as "a personal being with expanded supernatural, human, and parental qualities, which has shaped every religious idea of the Western world."
From a nontheist, naturalist, and rationalist perspective, the concept of divine grace appears to be the same concept as luck.
Many of them owe much of their theology to the work of Christian existentialist philosopher Paul Tillich, including the phrase "the ground of all being".
Another quotation from Tillich is, "God does not exist.
He is being itself beyond essence and existence.
Therefore to argue that God exists is to deny him."
This Tillich quotation summarizes his conception of God.
He does not think of God as a being that exists in time and space, because that constrains God, and makes God finite.
But all beings are finite, and if God is the Creator of all beings, God cannot logically be finite since a finite being cannot be the sustainer of an infinite variety of finite things.
Thus God is considered beyond being, above finitude and limitation, the power or essence of being itself.
A nontheist Friend or an atheist Quaker is someone who affiliates with, identifies with, engages in and/or affirms Quaker practices and processes, but who does not accept a belief in a theistic understanding of God, a Supreme Being, the divine, the soul or the supernatural.
Like theistic Friends, nontheist Friends are actively interested in realizing centered peace, simplicity, integrity, community, equality, love, happiness and social justice in the Society of Friends and beyond.
Hinduism is characterised by extremely diverse beliefs and practices.
In the words of R.C.
Zaehner, "it is perfectly possible to be a good Hindu whether one's personal views incline toward monism, monotheism, polytheism, or even atheism."
He goes on to say that it is a religion that neither depends on the existence or non-existence of God or Gods.
More broadly, Hinduism can be seen as having three more important strands: one featuring a personal Creator or Divine Being, one that emphasises an impersonal Absolute and a third that is pluralistic and non-absolute.
The latter two traditions can be seen as nontheistic.
Although the Vedas are broadly concerned with the completion of ritual, there are some elements that can be interpreted as either nontheistic or precursors to the later developments of the nontheistic tradition.
The oldest Hindu scripture, the Rig Veda mentions that 'There is only one god though the sages may give it various names' (1.164.46).
Max Müller termed this henotheism, and it can be seen as indicating one, non-dual divine reality, with little emphasis on personality.
The famous Nasadiya Sukta, the 129th Hymn of the tenth and final Mandala (or chapter) of the Rig Veda, considers creation and asks "The gods came afterwards, with the creation of this universe.
/Who then knows whence it has arisen?".
This can be seen to contain the intuition that there must be a single principle behind all phenomena: 'That one' (tad ekam), self-sufficient, to which distinctions cannot be applied.
It is with the Upanishads, reckoned to be written in the first millennia (coeval with the ritualistic Brahmanas), that the Vedic emphasis on ritual was challenged.
The Upanishads can be seen as the expression of new sources of power in India.
Also, separate from the Upanishadic tradition were bands of wandering ascetics called Vadins whose largely nontheistic notions rejected the notion that religious knowledge was the property of the Brahmins.
Many of these were shramanas, who represented a non-Vedic tradition rooted in India's pre-Aryan history.
The emphasis of the Upanishads turned to knowledge, specifically the ultimate identity of all phenomena.
This is expressed in the notion of Brahman, the key idea of the Upanishads, and much later philosophizing has been taken up with deciding whether Brahman is personal or impersonal.
The understanding of the nature of Brahman as impersonal is based in the definition of it as 'ekam eva advitiyam' (Chandogya Upanishad 6.2.1) - it is one without a second and to which no substantive predicates can be attached.
Further, both the Chandogya and Brihadaranyaka Upanishads assert that the individual atman and the impersonal Brahman are one.
The mahāvākya statement Tat Tvam Asi, found in the Chandogya Upanishad, can be taken to indicate this unity.
The latter Upanishad uses the negative term Neti neti to 'describe' the divine.
Classical Samkhya, Mimamsa, early Vaisheshika and early Nyaya schools of Hinduism do not accept the notion of an omnipotent creator God at all.
While the Sankhya and Mimamsa schools no longer have significant followings in India, they are both influential in the development of later schools of philosophy.
The Yoga of Patanjali is the school that probably owes most to the Samkhya thought.
This school is dualistic, in the sense that there is a division between 'spirit' (Sanskrit: purusha) and 'nature' (Sanskrit: prakṛti).
It holds Samadhi or 'concentrative union' as its ultimate goal and it does not consider God's existence as either essential or necessary to achieving this.
The Bhagavad Gita, contains passages that bear a monistic reading and others that bear a theistic reading.
Generally, the book as a whole has been interpreted by some who see it as containing a primarily nontheistic message, and by others who stress its theistic message.
These broadly either follow after either Sankara or Ramanuja An example of a nontheistic passage might be "The supreme Brahman is without any beginning.
That is called neither being nor non-being," which Sankara interpreted to mean that Brahman can only be talked of in terms of negation of all attributes—'Neti neti'.
The Advaita Vedanta of Gaudapada and Sankara rejects theism as a consequence of its insistence that Brahman is "Without attributes, indivisible, subtle, inconceivable, and without blemish, Brahman is one and without a second.
There is nothing other than He."
This means that it lacks properties usually associated with God such as omniscience, perfect goodness, omnipotence, and additionally is identical with the whole of reality, rather than being a causal agent or ruler of it.
Jain texts claims that the universe consists of jiva (life force or souls) and ajiva (lifeless objects).
According to Jain doctrine, the universe and its constituents -soul, matter, space, time, and principles of motion- have always existed.
The universe and the matter and souls within it are eternal and uncreated, and there is no omnipotent creator god.
Jainism offers an elaborate cosmology, including heavenly beings/devas, but these heavenly beings are not viewed as creators, they are subject to suffering and change like all other living beings, and are portrayed as mortal.
According to the Jain concept of divinity, any soul who destroys its karmas and desires, achieves liberation/Nirvana.
A soul who destroys all its passions and desires has no desire to interfere in the working of the universe.
If godliness is defined as the state of having freed one's soul from karmas and the attainment of enlightenment/Nirvana and a God as one who exists in such a state, then those who have achieved such a state can be termed gods (Tirthankara).
Besides scriptural authority, Jains also employ syllogism and deductive reasoning to refute creationist theories.
Various views on divinity and the universe held by the vedics, sāmkhyas, mimimsas, Buddhists, and other school of thoughts were criticized by Jain Ācāryas, such as Jinasena in Mahāpurāna.
Philosophical models not falling within established religious structures, such as Daoism, deism and pandeism, have also been considered to be nontheistic religions.
The most widely professed religion in Croatia is Christianity and a large majority of the Croatian population declares themselves as members of the Roman Catholic Church.
Croatia has no official religion and Freedom of religion is a right defined by the Constitution of Croatia, which also defines all religious communities as equal in front of the law and separate from the state.
According to the 2011 census 86.28% of Croatians are Catholics, while Orthodox Christians make up 4.44% of the population, Muslims 1.47 %, and Protestants 0.34% of the population.
3.81% of Croatians are not religious and atheists, 0.76% are agnostics and sceptics, and 2.17% are undeclared.
In the Eurostat Eurobarometer Poll of 2005, 67% of the population of Croatia responded that "they believe there is a God".
In a 2009 Gallup poll, 70% answered yes to the question "Is religion an important part of your daily life?".
However only 17.3% of the population attends religious services regularly.
Public schools allow religious teaching in cooperation with religious communities having agreements with the state, but attendance is not mandated.
Religion classes ( ) are organized widely in public elementary and secondary schools, most commonly coordinated with the Catholic Church.
The public holidays in Croatia also include the religious festivals ( ) of Epiphany, Easter Monday, Corpus Christi Day, Assumption Day, All Saints' Day, Christmas, and St. Stephen's or Boxing Day.
The primary holidays are based on the Catholic liturgical year, but other believers are legally allowed to celebrate other major religious holidays.
Marriages conducted by the religious communities having agreements with the state are officially recognized, eliminating the need to register the marriages in the civil registry office.
The Roman Catholic Church in Croatia receives state financial support and other benefits established in concordats between the Government and the Vatican.
The concordats and other government agreements with non-Roman Catholic religious communities allow state financing for some salaries and pensions for religious officials through government-managed pension and health funds.
The concordats and agreements also regulate public school catechisms and military chaplains.
In line with the concordats signed with the Roman Catholic Church and in an effort to further define their rights and privileges within a legal framework, the government has additional agreements with the following 14 religious communities: The 2002 Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities broadly defines religious communities' legal positions and covers such matters as government funding, tax benefits, and religious education in schools.
Matters such as pensions for clergy; religious service in the military, penitentiaries, and police; and recognition of religious marriages are left to each religious community to negotiate separately with the Government.
Registration of religious groups is not obligatory; however, registered groups are granted "legal person" status and enjoy tax and other benefits.
The law stipulates that to be eligible for registration, a religious group must have at least 500 believers and be registered as an association for 5 years.
All religious groups in the country prior to passage of the law in 2002 were registered without having to meet these conditions; religious groups new to the country after passage of the law must fulfill the requirements for the minimum number of believers and time as an association.
Religious groups based abroad must submit written permission for registration from their country of origin.
Minister of Public Administration runs a Registry of religious organizations in Republic of Croatia, currently recognizing 62 religious communities ( ).
DISPLAYTITLE The Religions of Dune are a key aspect of the fictional setting of the Dune universe created by Frank Herbert.
Many of the names of religions mentioned in the novels indicate they are blends of current belief systems, some syncretic.
According to Appendix II: The Religion of Dune in the 1965 novel Dune, after the Butlerian Jihad, the Bene Gesserit composed the Azhar Book, a "bibliographic marvel that preserves the great secrets of the most ancient faiths".
Soon after, a group made up of the leaders of many religions (calling itself the Commission of Ecumenical Translators) created the Orange Catholic Bible, the key religious text of the Dune universe, which "contains elements of most ancient religions".
Zensufism is a hybrid of Zen and Sufism, a form of Islamic mysticism which, based on epigrams in Chapterhouse: Dune, would have figured in Dune 7.
There are only two Zensufi epigrams in Chapterhouse: Dune: Internal evidence in Heretics of Dune suggests that this was the religion of the Bene Tleilaxu, who had originally been part of the Zensunni Wanderers.
Zensunni is a syncretic religious belief combining principles of Zen Buddhism and Sunni Islam.
In the fictional far future of human civilization portrayed in the series, various ethnic and political groups adhere to this worldview, including the Fremen, originally the "Zensunni Wanderers".
In Terminology of the Imperium (the glossary of the novel Dune), Frank Herbert provides the following definition: <blockquote>ZENSUNNI: followers of a schismatic sect that broke away from the teachings of Maometh (the so-called "Third Muhammed") about 1381 B.G.
The Zensunni religion is noted chiefly for its emphasis on the mystical and a reversion to "the ways of the fathers."
Most scholars name Ali Ben Ohashi as leader of the original schism but there is some evidence that Ohashi may have been merely the male spokesman for his second wife, Nisai.
According to Terminology of the Imperium, the planet Poritrin is "considered by many Zensunni Wanderers as their planet of origin, although clues in their language and mythology show far more ancient planetary roots".
The former Imperial capital (and later prison world) Salusa Secundus was "the second stopping point in migrations of the Wandering Zensunni.
Fremen tradition says they were slaves on S.S. for nine generations."
The "third stopping place" is noted as Bela Tegeuse, and Harmonthep was the "sixth stop".
The ascension of Paul Atreides as Emperor in Dune and the expansion of Fremen influence throughout the Imperium widely popularized the study of Zensunni beliefs.
It is noted in Terminology of the Imperium that the Orange Catholic Bible "contains elements of most ancient religions, including ... Zensunni Catholicism".
Herbert "sprinkled Zen ideas throughout Dune", as when Reverend Mother Mohiam queries Paul: <blockquote>"Ever sift sand through a screen?"
<br> The tangential slash of her question shocked his mind into a higher awareness: Sand through a screen, he nodded.< <br> "We Bene Gesserit sift people to find the humans."
</blockquote> This is a Zen kōan, or a story, dialogue, question, or statement: "...that sounds like gibberish, but also like it might be incredibly profound, provided you think about it long enough."
A kōan generally contains aspects that are inaccessible to rational understanding, yet may be accessible to intuition.
Zen masters "developed this trick to 'open up' the mind of their students without filling it with their own opinions".
Herbert himself noted in "Dune Genesis", his own analysis of the development of the novel, that: <blockquote>"As in an Escher lithograph, I involved myself with recurrent themes that turn into paradox.
The central paradox concerns the human vision of time.
What about Paul's gift of prescience — the Presbyterian fixation?
For the Delphic Oracle to perform, it must tangle itself in a web of predestination.
Yet predestination negates surprises and, in fact, sets up a mathematically enclosed universe whose limits are always inconsistent, always encountering the unprovable.
It's like a kōan, a Zen mind breaker."
In the Brian Herbert/Kevin J. Anderson Legends of Dune prequel trilogy, before and during the Butlerian Jihad the Zensunnis were brought as slaves from their homeworlds (like Harmonthep) to places like Poritrin.
After the slave revolt on Poritrin, many Zensunnis escaped to Arrakis; these Zensunni wanderers would become the first Fremen.
Terminology of the Imperium also defines several Zensunni terms: <blockquote> AULIYA: In the Zensunni Wanderers' religion, the female at the left hand of God; God's handmaiden.
<br /> FIQH: knowledge, religious law; one of the half-legendary origins of the Zensunni Wanderers' religion.
<br /> ILM: theology; science of religious tradition; one of the half-legendary origins of the Zensunni Wanderers' faith.
<br /> MISR: the historical Zensunni (Fremen) term for themselves: "The People."
<br /> SHAH-NAMA: the half-legendary First Book of the Zensunni Wanderers.
<br /> ULEMA: a Zensunni doctor of theology.
These concepts are all more or less identifiable with Islamic concepts: In Chapterhouse: Dune it is revealed that Jewish communities continue to exist, scattered across the galaxy.
In sharp contrast to the drastic changes which have occurred in other religions in the 25,000 years between the 20th century and the time of the Honored Matres invasion, Judaism has undergone comparatively little change.
Jewish characters also feature in Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson's sequels, Hunters of Dune and Sandworms of Dune.
These Jewish communities are led by rabbis, at least some of whom have working relationships with the Bene Gesserit.
Heretics of Dune suggests that Jewish thought may have influenced the development of Bene Gesserit philosophy.
The Jewish community described in the novels defines itself as part of "Secret Israel", which, in conjunction with the sparse historical information given in the novel, suggests that the Jewish people had decided to conceal themselves to follow their religion and avoid the recurrent atrocities of their past.
Long ago, the Bene Gesserit and the hidden Jewish communities came to an understanding of sorts: the Bene Gesserit would provide aid to hidden Jews if they were ever threatened, and help hide the fact that the Jewish religion survives in secret; in return, if ever a Bene Gesserit acolyte is lost and threatened on an isolated planet, the local Jewish community give her aid and shelter.
A simple arrangement, but one which endured between both groups for millennia.
Moreover, the Torah and Talmudic Zabur are listed in the appendix to Dune as having contributed to the Orange Catholic Bible; the appendix also notes that these books were preserved on Salusa Secundus.
A hybrid of Mahayana Buddhism and Christianity, which presumably interpreted Jesus Christ as a Buddha.
This is a minority religion in the Imperium, which is clearly based on the Lankavatara Sutra, a text of the Mahayana.
The Brian Herbert/Kevin J. Anderson Legends of Dune prequel trilogy notes that "Muadru" is an ancient religion predating the Old Empire before the Time of the Titans.
Its prophetic writings are used out of context by Iblis Ginjo during the Butlerian Jihad; there is also some indication that the Muadru and the Cogitors shared the same origin.
In Paul of Dune, Paul Atreides shows Count Fenring an ancient Muadru room buried deep under his Arrakeen residence.
He further explains to him that the Muadru are an ancient people who once settled through the entire galaxy but became suddenly extinct.
They are believed to have settled on Arrakis while it was still a verdant planet and to have introduced the sandworms there long before the arrival of the Zensunni Wanderers.
According to the Legends of Dune trilogy, Navachristianity is the religion of the ruling class on Poritrin.
However, according to Dune it is found on the planet Chusuk, but there is no explanation of its tenets.
Three tenable etymologies have been suggested.
One treats it as a portmanteau of Navajo with Christianity and assumes Herbert was alluding to a movement comparable with the Native American Church; another treats it as a worn down fusion of Nauvoo with Christianity in reference to the American religious movements begun there; the third derives "nava-" from 'new' in Sanskrit, the liturgical language of Hinduism and Mahayana Buddhism, often being used in the same sense as 'neo'.
Thus, Navachristianity may simply mean 'neo-Christianity', or represent a blend of Christianity with the religions of the Indian subcontinent; it should be noted, that in light of the syncretic forms of Buddhism listed, the Indian religion most likely is the little-mentioned faith of Hinduism.
This is Herbert's rendering of the Hekiganroku, a Chinese collection of Zen (i.e., Chan) koans compiled in China during the Song dynasty in 1125, which formed the basis of an associated cult in the Dune cosmos (or so we may infer).
Curiously, Herbert renders the roku ending as shu, which appears to be the character 書, meaning "document" and is notably used in the alternate title for the Classic of History, Shangshu.
Thus, in traditional Chinese the phrase Zen Hekiganshu would be Chán Bìyánshū (禪 碧巖書).
The connection between Buddislam and this sect is unexplained, but contextually, the inference is that the Zen Hekiganshu tradition rejected any fusion with Islam, thus retaining its purity and minority status.
Taradi, or Himalayan yam, is a little-studied plant which appears above the ground as a low vine, but underground bears long, convoluted tuber growth stretching sometimes as deep as 2 metres.
It is native to Palampur in northern India.
It has received very little attention from botanists, and its species has not even been determined or named, although its morphology and life patterns show it to belong in the Dioscorea genus, so it has been referred to as Dioscorea spp..
The tubers are edible, and are eaten during traditional religious festivals.
Taradi can be roasted or cooked, and used as a vegetable.
Digging and selling taradi is a major source of income in the region.
Theatre festivals are amongst the earliest types of festival.
Classical Greek theatre was associated with religious festivals dedicated to Dionysus.
The medieval mystery plays were presented at the major Christian feasts.
Theatre as an everyday part of life is a comparatively recent phenomenon.
In recent years, theatre festivals have been established to promote various types of theatre, such as the works of William Shakespeare and George Bernard Shaw.
Many festivals, such as those in the fringe theatre movement, promote the work of beginning playwrights and performers.
This is a list of theatre festivals around the world:
Matani ( ) is a village in the Kakheti region, Georgia.
In the village is a 5th-century basilica, Tskhrakara (literally, the Nine Gates) and the ruins of an old palace of the Cholokashvili noble family.
The village is also home to several traditional religious festivals throughout a year, particularly Didbatonoba (local celebration of St George's Day, November 23), Iasharoba (autumn), and Tsikhegoroba (local variant of Easter Tuesday holiday).
Matani is also known as the birthplace of the national hero Kakutsa Cholokashvili (1888-1930) Otari (Otto) Mgebrishvili - Radio Amateur from Matani 4L4O
Bogdanuša is a white grape variety, which is grown on the Croatian island of Hvar, where it originated on the Stari Grad Plain.
Wines from this grape tend to be dry with a green-yellow to golden color and from 12% alcohol on up.
Premium quality Bogdanuša wines are produced by Dalmacijavino, and Plančić Winery.
Legend says that this wine was drunk at religious festivals and that is why it got the name Bogdanuša (given by God).
The Niobrara Reservation is a former Indian Reservation in northeast Nebraska.
It originally comprised lands for both the Santee Sioux and the Ponca, both Siouan-speaking tribes, near the mouth of the Niobrara River at its confluence with the Missouri River.
In the late nineteenth century the United States government built a boarding school at the reservation for the Native American children in the region.
By 1908 after allotment of plots to individual households of the tribes under the Dawes Act, were reserved for an agency, school and mission for a distinct Santee Sioux Reservation; the neighboring Ponca Reservation had only reserved for agency and school buildings.
In 1884, John Lenger organized an all-Indian brass band on the Niobrara Reservation, the Santee Sioux Band.
The group <blockquote> demonstrated the musical ability of the Santee and presented them in a favorable light to their white neighbors.
The band, led by Lenger, appeared at the Chicago World's Fair in 1893 and at the Trans-Mississippi Exposition in Omaha in 1898 .. [and]... a special command performance for President Benjamin Harrison.
In 1890, Special Agent Reuben Sears described the land as unsuitable for farming without irrigation.
"Perhaps half of the lands on this reservation would produce half a crop usually, while the other half is absolutely worthless, except for grazing, and 10 acres of this would be requisite to sustain 1 steer ...
Timber is not abundant on this reservation.
A sufficient quantity is found for fuel and posts, and for present use only."
The Indian population at the Santee and Flandreau Agency at that time was 869.
The Santee were described as a community that raised ponies and horses and lived in log or frame houses with barns, but did not like to keep milk cows or hogs.
The Santee displayed aptitude for music and carpentry, and continued their customs of moving between summer and winter homes and "congregating together."
Sears concluded that "The Santees are practically self-sustaining, although occupying an almost barren reservation."
Sears noted that the Santee simply stopped talking altogether if asked about their tribal history or religious beliefs.
Their unwillingness to discuss their history is understandable, given that memories of the Dakota War of 1862 were still relatively fresh.
After the war, thirty-nine Sioux were killed in a mass execution in Mankato, Minnesota, and a third of the Indians imprisoned at Camp McClellan died of disease; some of these survivors were sent to Nebraska.
Three hundred of the women, children, and old men at the post-war internment camp on Pike Island, near Fort Snelling, Minnesota, died due to poor conditions; in May 1863 Dakota survivors were forced aboard steamboats and relocated to the drought-stricken Crow Creek Reservation.
Many of the survivors of Crow Creek moved three years later to the Niobrara Reservation.
By contrast, the Ponca on the reservation numbered about 217 people, raised cattle and hogs, and were willing to discuss their history and religion.
They lived in small frame houses, and had adequate rainfall and well water to maintain well-kept farms.
In the 1930s, an archeological survey was begun on the Ponca/Niobrara Reservation south of the Niobrara River and Lynch, Nebraska.
In an effort to identify and save prehistoric artifacts before they were destroyed during agricultural development, the University of Nebraska and the Smithsonian Institution undertook a joint project.
The team excavated a prehistoric Ponca village; the ten laborers on the project were paid by the Works Progress Administration of the Franklin D. Roosevelt administration during the Great Depression.
The project was to survey, identify and protect ancient resources.
The Ponca village included large circular homes up to sixty feet in diameter; their residences were located for almost two miles (3 km) along the south bank of the Niobrara River.
Niobrara Island was included in the original reservation.
The Committee for the Scientific Examination of Religion (CSER) is based at the Center for Inquiry in Amherst, New York.
According to its mission statement, CSER is a research consultation devoted "to the study of religion and ethics from the standpoint of philosophical naturalism and to the critical, nonparochial, and humanistic study of religious truth claims."
The Committee professes to serve both a "watchdog" function in relation to church-state and educational issues, and the academic community through generating original research and promoting religious literacy.
CSER is described as a nonprofit educational organization which "locates its values in the humanistic principles of the American and European Enlightenment and the liberal critical traditions of post-Enlightenment culture."
The Committee consists of approximately one hundred elected fellows chosen from academe and the professions.
Past and serving fellows include Van Harvey, Joseph L. Blau, Carol Meyers, Morton Smith, Karen Armstrong, Vern Bullough, Joseph Fletcher, Lewis Feuer, Theodor Gaster, Gerd Luedemann, Antony Flew, John Hick, David Noel Freedman, John Dominic Crossan, Alan Ryan, Don Cupitt, Margaret Chatterjee, Richard Taylor, Susan Blackmore, Robert Carroll, Arthur Peacocke, Clinton Bennett and Peter Atkins.
The Committee was formed in 1985 as an expansion of the Religion and Biblical Criticism Research Project founded by Free Inquiry magazine in 1982.
The former group promoted a number of projects that scrutinized conservative and fundamentalist religious beliefs and institutions.
The two men primarily responsible for organizing this group were the philosopher Paul Kurtz and the professor of archaeology and Biblical history at the University of Southern California Gerald Larue.
One early project of this group was a national conference in Washington, DC.
The conference, sponsored by the Council for Democratic and Secular Humanism (CODESH), was in response to President Ronald Reagan’s signing of the Congressional Resolution J-5018, which declared 1983 the "Year of the Bible."
The conference included presentations by academics, politicians, and religious leaders who were concerned that the passage of the Resolution constituted a violation of the constitutional protection of freedom of conscience in religious matters and a circumvention of the principle of separation of church and state, as defined in the First Amendment.
The participants included Senators Sam Ervin (D-North Carolina), Lowell Weicker (R-Connecticut), Professor James Robinson, Henry Steele Commager, Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., Michael Novak, Paul Kurtz, and Gerald Larue.
The founding members of CSER represented a wide variety of secular and religious viewpoints.
Its "manifesto" was crafted in broadly humanistic language which pointed to public ignorance of Constitutional axioms, deficiencies in the public understanding of religion, science, and political history, and particular weaknesses in the American educational system in teaching about religion.
Since 1983, CSER's conferences have presented religious studies scholarship to the public as well as to the academic community.
The Committee has widened its scope and membership base through the years to reflect its interest in the critical examination of religious traditions in a global context.
CSER has sponsored educational programs and conferences in America, Europe, Asia, Africa, and Latin America.
Professor Gerald Larue (Biblical Archaeology, University of Southern California) was elected the first Chair of CSER in 1983.
Professor R. Joseph Hoffmann (History of Religion, Center for Inquiry, Amherst, NY), formerly chair of the Oxford Centre for Critical Studies in Religion was elected CSER Chairperson in 2003.
The Committee publishes its own monograph series and a journal, CSER Quarterly.
Religion in the European Union is a diverse matter with significant levels of belief in all EU member states.
The largest religion in the EU is Christianity, which accounts for 72% of EU population, with its largest denominations being Roman Catholicism, Protestantism (especially in the north), and Eastern Orthodoxy.
Smaller groups include those of Islam, Buddhism, Judaism, Hinduism, and some East Asian religions, most concentrated in Britain and France.
Also present are revival movements of pre-Christianity European folk religions including Heathenism, Rodnovery, Romuva, and Druidry.
Over the last several decades, religious practice has been on the decline in a process of secularisation.
Eurostat's Eurobarometer opinion polls showed in 2010 that 49% of EU citizens did not believe in God.
Many countries have experienced falling church attendance and membership in recent years.
Countries with the fewest people reporting belief in God are the Czech Republic (16%), Estonia (18%), and Sweden (18%).
The most religious countries are Malta (94%; predominantly Roman Catholic), Cyprus (~90%; predominantly Orthodox), and Romania (~90%; predominantly Orthodox).
Across the EU, belief is more common with age and is higher amongst women, those with only basic education, and those "positioning themselves on the right of the political scale (57%)".
The EU is a secular body, i.e., there is a separation of church and state.
There are no formal ties to any religion and no mention of religion in any current or proposed treaty.
Discussion over the draft texts of the European Constitution and later the Treaty of Lisbon have included proposals to mention Christianity and/or God in the preamble of the text.
This call has been supported by Christian religious leaders, most notably the Pope.
However explicit inclusion of a link to religion faced opposition from secularists and the final Constitution referred to Europe's "Religious and Humanist inheritance".
A second attempt to include Christianity in the treaty was undertaken in 2007 with the drafting of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Angela Merkel promised the Pope that she would use her influence during Germany's presidency to try to include a reference to Christianity and God in the treaty.
This has provoked opposition, not least in the German press, and as this inclusion may have caused problems in reaching a final agreement, this attempt was given up.
Of the Union's 28 states, only four have an official state religion, these being Denmark (Church of Denmark), Greece (Church of Greece), Malta (Roman Catholic Church) and England in the UK (Church of England).
Some other churches have a close relationship with the state.
Until 2000, the Church of Sweden was the state church of Sweden and while never accepting the status, the Church of Scotland was often considered to be the Established Church in Scotland, until the position was clarified finally in Parliament in the 1920s.
In the secularising EU, The Vatican has been vocal against a perceived "militant atheism".
It based this on a number of events, for example: the rejection of religious references in the Constitution and Treaty of Lisbon, the rejection by Parliament of Rocco Buttiglione as Justice Commissioner in 2004, while at the same time Parliament approved Peter Mandelson (who is gay) as Trade Commissioner, and the legalisation of same-sex marriage in countries such as the Netherlands, Belgium, and Spain.
The European Parliament has also been calling for same-sex marriages to be recognised across the EU.
Meanwhile, states such as Latvia and Poland have rejected legislation designed to stop discrimination against homosexuals.
This has been stated to be on religious grounds, with homosexual behaviour described as "unnatural", and the Catholic Church influencing public opinion.
The difference of opinion between these countries and Brussels has been damaging relations.
Due to the rise of other religions, and some intolerance towards them, the EU Commission now regularly meets with different religious leaders.
In November 2005, a delegation from the European Humanist Federation was invited to a meeting by Commissioner-President Barroso.
This was the first time a humanist group had been consulted in this manner by the Commission.
President Romano Prodi has refused such meetings, despite meeting various religious leaders, causing some resentment by humanists.
Atheism and agnosticism has increased among the general population in Europe, with falling church attendance and membership in many countries.
The countries where the fewest people reported a religious belief were the Czech Republic (16% professed belief in a God), Estonia (18% professed belief in a God) and Sweden (18% professed belief in a God).
In such countries, even those who have a faith can be disdainful of organised religion.
The most religious societies are those in Malta with 94% (predominantly Roman Catholic), and Cyprus and Romania both with about 90% of their citizens believing in a God.
Across the EU, belief was higher among: the elderly, those with strict upbringings, those with the lowest levels of formal education, those leaning towards right-wing politics, those questioning the meaning and purpose to life, and those more concerned with moral and ethical issues in science and technology over risk-benefit analysis.
In 2012, the highest ever number of births outside of marriage were recorded in the European Union, at 40%, with first-births out of wedlock and cohabitation figures being even higher.
Seven EU countries recorded a majority of births outside of marriage - Estonia (59% in 2014), Bulgaria (58.8% in 2014), Slovenia (58.3% in 2014), France (57.4% in 2014), Sweden (54.4% in 2013), Belgium (52.3% in 2012), and Denmark (51.5% in 2013).
These countries tend to be less religious ones (less than half of the population believing in a God) whereas half of the European population believes in a God.
Most EU countries have experienced a decline in church attendance, as well as a decline in the number of people professing a belief in a God.
The Eurobarometer Poll 2010 found that, on average, 51% of the citizens of EU member states state that they believe in a God, 26% believe there is some sort of spirit or life force while 20% do not believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force.
According to a recent study (Dogan, Mattei, Religious Beliefs in Europe: Factors of Accelerated Decline), 47% of Frenchmen declared themselves as agnostic in 2003.
The situation of religion varies between countries in European Union.
A decrease in religiousness and church attendance in western Europe (especially the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Luxembourg and the Czech Republic) has been noted and called "Post-Christian Europe".
Also in the most populous eastern Europe country and EU member Poland there has been a sharp reduction in church attendance since 2005, although with 41.5% in 2009 still well above the single digit figures that are so typical for Sunday mass attendance in other EU countries.
The following is a list of European countries ranked by religiosity, based on belief in a God, according to the Eurobarometer Poll 2010.
The 2010 Eurobarometer Poll asked whether the person believed "there is a God", believed "there is some sort of spirit of life force", "didn't believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force".
Judaism has had a long, and frequently dark, history in Europe.
Prior to the Holocaust, the area of the European Union had a Jewish population of 5,375,000; it was largely exterminated in German Nazi death camps.
In 2002 the EU had a Jewish population of barely over a million, including about 519,000 in France and about 273,500 in the United Kingdom (compare with about 5.8 million Jews living in Israel.).
In view of the history of persecution of Jews in Europe, antisemitism remains a matter of attention within the EU.
Immigration has increasingly introduced religions not originally of significant adherence into Europe, most notably Islam.
It was estimated that the Union's Muslim population in 2009 was 13 million people.
The country with the largest percentage of Muslims in western Europe is France with 8%–10% (6–7 million) followed by Germany (4.5 million), the UK (2.7 million) and Italy (1.5 million).
Aside from Turkey, the only possible future member to have a majority of Muslims is Albania, although other Balkan states like Bosnia and Macedonia also have sizeable Muslim populations.
Kosovo is also a Muslim majority area.
A series of clashes and incidents connected to the religion have occurred in recent years, including: the murder of Theo van Gogh by Mohammed Bouyeri, the 2004 Madrid train bombings, the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy with continuing attempts to kill the cartoonist, and numerous terrorist attacks in the UK such as the 7 July 2005 London bombings.
In response to Islamic extremism, some figures, such as Justice Freedom & Security Commissioner Franco Frattini, have suggested creating a "European Islam" – a branch of the Islamic faith that is compatible with European values.
Svartsoppa ("Black soup") is a soup consumed traditionally and mostly in the province of Scania in Southern Sweden.
The main ingredient is goose blood (or sometimes pig blood).
It is often eaten before the goose dish at the Mårtens gås or Mårten gås dinner on the 10 November, the eve of Saint Martin (11 November), a surviving remnant of the Roman Catholic feast dedicated to Martin of Tours.
Goose is traditionally eaten at this feast over large parts of Europe, with associations to the folklore surrounding Saint Martin.
Black soup has existed some form almost everywhere in the world, limited only by religious beliefs.
Today the dish has left most localities' cuisines.
Rachel M. McCleary is Senior Research Fellow, Taubman Center, Harvard Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Research Fellow of the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, and Visiting Scholar, American Enterprise Institute.
McCleary's work is interdisciplinary with theoretical grounding in the fields of political science, sociology, and economics.
Within these disciplines, she conducts research on the political economy of religion.
Her research focuses on how religion interacts with economic performance and the political and social behavior of individuals and institutions across societies.
McCleary studies how religious beliefs and practices influence productivity, economic growth, and the maintenance of political institutions such as democracy.
Her and her husband's work was cited in the March 25, 2013 edition of Bloomberg.
Rachel Holds a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Chicago, a Master of Theological Studies from Emory University, and a B.A.
from Indiana University.
Religious uniformity occurs when government is used to promote one state religion, denomination, or philosophy to the exclusion of all other religious beliefs.
Religious uniformity was common in many modern theocratic and atheistic governments around the world until fairly modern times.
The modern concept of a separate civil government was relatively unknown until expounded upon by Roger Williams, a Christian minister, in The Bloudy Tenent of Persecution (1644) shortly after he founded the American colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations in 1636.
In the United States, the First Amendment to the Constitution (1791) prohibits the federal government from establishing or prohibiting a religion, and in 1947 the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that states cannot create established state churches in Everson v. Board of Education.
Pitchstone Publishing is a publishing company based in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Founded by Kurt Volkan in 2003, Pitchstone Publishing has published numerous books by leading academics and scholars, particularly in the fields of applied psychiatry and psychoanalysis.
More recent books stem from the New Atheist tradition.
Among the books published by Pitchstone are PsychoBible: Behavior, Religion and the Holy Book by Armando Favazza, God Bless America: Strange and Unusual Religious Beliefs and Practices in the United States by Karen Stollznow, Blind Trust: Leaders and Their Followers in Times of Crisis and Terror, and Killing in the Name of Identity: A Study of Bloody Conflicts by Vamik D. Volkan.
Forthcoming books include Why We Believe in God(s): A Concise Guide to the Science of Faith by J. Anderson Thomson, Jr. with Clare Aukofer, with a foreword by Richard Dawkins, and a book by Sean Faircloth.
Orlando Aloysius Battista (June 20, 1917 - October 3, 1995), also frequently referred to as O.A.
Battista, was a Canadian-American chemist and author.
A devout Catholic, he was notable in his writing for not shying away from advertising his religious beliefs as well as his scientific ones.
Battista was born in Cornwall, Ontario, Canada, as the seventh of eight children.
His father was a long-time Canadian government employee.
As a child, he was an altar boy and earned money via shoveling snow and a newspaper route.
He began writing at the age of twelve, after saving enough money to buy a typewriter.
S-VOX Foundation was a Canadian non-profit media organization dedicated to producing content on spirituality.
The organization is the successor to the non-profit entity that operated VisionTV, and later other related Canadian speciality channels, from 1988 to 2010.
In June 2009, the company announced it would sell its broadcasting assets to ZoomerMedia, a company controlled by Moses Znaimer.
The sale was approved by the CRTC on March 30, 2010.
ZoomerMedia assumed control of S-VOX's broadcasting assets on June 30, 2010.
After the sale of VisionTV, S-VOX’s board of directors undertook to use the funds to found the Inspirit Foundation.
Inspirit is a national grant-making organization that supports Canadians, particularly young adults, in building a more inclusive and pluralistic society.
One way the foundation does this is by funding initiatives that foster engagement and exchange between young Canadians of different secular, spiritual and religious beliefs.
The Alak or Hrlak are an Austroasiatic ethnic group of southern Laos, living mainly in Salavan Province.
They speak the Alak language.
Little is known of their history, though as an Austroasiatic-speaking group, their origin is presumably in the Central Highlands of Vietnam.
Nowadays, most Alak live in scattered villages of between ten and sixty houses, traditionally built in a circular pattern around a communal house.
Houses are normally built on stilts about a metre high.
The main diet and trading staple is rice, farmed with the slash-and-burn method, although small game, fish, and various plants and mushrooms provide additional food.
Religious beliefs involve a range of supernatural beings, including spirits of mountains, forests and other natural features.
Most villages have a shaman who helps cure the sick and predict the future for the village.
The dead are typically buried in graveyards in the forest.
The Ministry for National Security or MNB (In Turkmen: Türkmenistanyň Milli howpsuzlyk ministrilgi) is an intelligence agency for the government of Turkmenistan.
It is composed largely of the remnants of KGB organs left over after the collapse of the Soviet Union; its functions remain largely the same as well.
The KNB and the national police force are under the direction of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Until 2002 was known as KNB - The Committee for National Security.
Amnesty International has claimed that the MNB has persecuted Turkmens for their religious beliefs, and that only members of the Russian Orthodox Church and Sunni Muslims are tolerated.
Human Rights Watch has asserted that the KNB has repeatedly imprisoned and harassed political opponents.
Both organizations cite the use of torture by KNB agents.
Mino Cèlsi (1514 - circa 1576) was an Italian ambassador and scholar; he was forced to flee to Basel, Switzerland, for his defense of Protestant critics of Roman Catholicism.
Born in Siena to an aristocratic family, he served in various roles in government, including as ambassador from the Republic to Milan (1545, 1555-1556) and as a representative (1563) of Siena in Florence.
Suffering from financial difficulties, and in part because of his affiliation with others who fell to imprisonment by the Roman Inquisition, he fled from Siena and ended up in Basel.
He traveled to Vienna and Frankfort in search of employment.
After his death a manuscript was published in Latin under his name, including De haereticis coercendis quatenus progredi liceat , disputatio, by Mini Celsi Senensis, and Lelio Sozzini, Christalingae, (1577).
(Translation: Highlighting the Progress in the Restrictions of Heresy).
The work argues for tolerance of alternative religious beliefs.
Lesseyton is a town in Lukanji Local Municipality in the Eastern Cape province of South Africa, located 14 km northwest of Queenstown.
Almost all residents are Xhosa speakers.
Lesseyton has two schools: the Lesseyton Primary School and Ndlovukazi Public High School.
Lesseyton was established as a mission station of the Wesleyan Missionary Society in 1847.
The people were all Thembu, who mostly retained their customary cultural and religious beliefs.
In 1851, a war broke out between the Xhosas and the Cape colonial authorities, and many Thembus joined the hostilities against the colonial government.
The Thembus at Lesseyton, however, remained loyal to the British, and fought the rebellion as part of the "Lesseyton Volunteers".
Christianity is a small minority in Mauritania.
All of the roughly 4,500 Roman Catholics in Mauritania are within the country's only diocese, the Roman Catholic Diocese of Nouakchott.
There are several expatriate African churches in Mauritania, though there are no more than 200 Protestants in the country, including foreigners.
In spite of a strict law against evangelization, the Mauritanian Christian community is growing and there estimated to be 400 - 1,000 ethnic Mauritanian Christians.
For a period of eight months the Miracle Channel, a Norwegian/Swedish Christian channel, broadcast clandestine Christian gatherings in the Mauritanian desert containing over 160 people.
The distribution of Christian literature and the evangelizing of Muslims are prohibited by law.
Bibles are rarely printed or distributed.
State oppression has included the arrest of Mauritanian Christians due to their religious beliefs and the closure of churches.
Conversion from Islam is punishable by death and other religions are not recognized by the state.
Cultural framework is a term used in social science to describe traditions, value systems, myths and symbols that are common in a given society.
A given society may have multiple cultural frameworks (for example, United States society has different cultural frameworks for its white and African American populations).
Usually cultural frameworks are mixed; as certain individuals or entire groups can be familiar with many cultural frameworks.
There is an important relation between cultural frameworks and ideologies, as most successful ideologies are closely connected to cultural frameworks of societies they spread in.
Cultural framework should not, however, be confused with ideology, as those concepts are separate.
For example, in Nazi Germany, Nazism was an ideology, while religious beliefs, patriotism and traditions dating back to Germanic and Frankish tribes were part of the German cultural framework.
The Jirels ( ) of eastern Nepal are both ethnically and linguistically related to both the Sherpas and Sunuwars.
Their population of 5,300 is centered on the Jiri Valley.
Their main form of subsistence is agro-pastoral production, combing the cultivation of wheat, barley, and maize, with the herding of goats and cattle.
Little is known about them, but they have certain cultural affinities close Sunwars and the Sherpas suggest that their culture is a form of the Bhoti culture.
The Jirels practice Tibetan Buddhism, have their own lamas.
There is a Sherpa Buddhist monastery and a Jirel monastery in the valley.
Like other ethnic groups, the Jirel's religious beliefs include elements derived from Hinduism, as well as shamanistic practices.
Jirel shaman are known as phombos, whose practices are similar to the shamanistic activities elsewhere in eastern Nepal.
According to the 2001 Nepal Census, there were a total of 5,316 ethnic Jirel, of whom 87.00% were Buddhists and 10.55% were Hindus.
Che Kam Kong (died in 1871), also known as Chea Kunkong, was a Chinese Protestant Christian who was killed because of his beliefs in China.
He is regarded by some to be one of the first martyrs among Protestants in China.
Che Kam Kong visited British Hong Kong in 1865, and in 1866 converted to Christianity.
He proselytized extensively over the next five years, allegedly bringing about the conversion of over a hundred people in Poklo, Guangdong province.
Town elders in Poklo, concerned with this abandonment of traditional religious beliefs, warned Che to stop, yet he refused.
He was kidnapped and tortured in 1871 in an attempt to force him to give up his beliefs.
He is said to have declared, "You may kill my body but you cannot destroy my soul".
He was taken outside the city gates and killed; his body was cut up and thrown into a nearby river.
Christy Perry (born June 4, 1968 in Ankara, Turkey) is a Republican Idaho State Representative since 2010 representing District 13 in the B seat.
Christy has made news recently professing support for faith healing instead of medical care in certain circumstances.
She cites the religious beliefs of a denomination of Christianity prominent in her district for her reasoning.
Born overseas in a military family, Perry graduated Middleton High School and earned her degree from Boise State University.
I Had to Fall in Love was the only solo album released by former Supremes lead singer Jean Terrell, released in 1978 on the A&M label.
The album was completed five years after she left the Supremes and when it was finished, promotion was stopped completely because of Terrell's strict religious beliefs that prevented her from promoting the album in a way that she did not favor.
In 2006, an independent label re-released the album in CD format.
The title track is also available on the Motown compilation CD "The Supremes: Greatest Hits and Rare classics, 70's".
In the Name of Identity: Violence and the Need to Belong is a 1998 book by Amin Maalouf.
In this work, Maalouf discusses the identity crisis which Arabs have experienced since the establishment of continuous relationships with the west, adding his personal dimension as a Christian Arab.
The book is intended for both Arabs and Westerners (as well as for people with mixed heritage).
This work is divided into five major chapters, "Identity and Belonging", "When Modernity Comes From the Other", "The Era of Cosmic Tribals", "Taming the Shrew" and a glossary.
He begins with universal values of identity, which he dissects, describes the extremes, then applies them to the Levant.
He tries to describe how the average modern Arab feels, along a wide spectrum of ideologies in practice throughout the Arab world...from religious beliefs and traditional practices to total secularism.
The book also sheds light on recent events in the Arab world, from civil wars to relations with the west.
The Democratic Azerbaijan's World Party ( ) is a political party in Azerbaijan.
It was founded by Mammed Alizde in 1992.
In 1996 the party joined the major parties Council of the Assembly.
From 2001 the party has been leading this Assembly.
The basic principles of the party are to defend sovereignty of Azerbaijan and to create a civil society.
Policy: "government will continue to render support to the development of entrepreneurship and increase funds for them via the National Entrepreneurship Support Fund on the backdrop of the world crisis.
Their government includes executive, legislative, and judiciary powers."
No, in fact there are many priests and religions.
The people have a right to believe or not believe in any religion the individual chooses.
And yes, the people as a whole agree with this statement.
Dissenters say: I could not find any evidence of dissenters.
I think everyone is glad that they can have any beliefs that they want.
UN stance: The UN believes that Azerbaijan is a good nation that promotes international peace and security.
Democratic Choice (Spanish: Opción Democrática, OD) is a Dominican Republic political party founded in 2015 by Minou Tavárez Mirabal and other volunteers .
Democratic option (OD) was announced as a result of Mirabal's split from the Dominican Liberation’s Party in a public letter to the media.
Democratic Choice is a community of Dominican citizens without restrictions based on socioeconomic status, religious beliefs, ethnic, gender or any another condition.
It favors the construction of an able democratic society to exhibit humanity's highest aspirations and to satisfy the spiritual needs and materials of the Dominican people in a surrounding of fraternity, freedom and justice.
Its symbol is an O and a D that turn into a flower.
Its colors are blue, yellow,green and red.
Ghelani is an Indian family surname from the Kathiawad, Gujarat area of India.
Formally, all members of the Ghelani family are Hindu Leuva Patel, although some have since chosen other religious beliefs.
The Ghelani surname came from the name of an ancestor, Ghela.
Kali Mata serves as the family goddess.
The Ghelani family were originally settled in Vahiya, a village near Barvala, where they worked as subsistence farmers.
Today, members of the Ghelani family have moved to Surat, Mumbai, Kolkata, United States, UK as well as South Africa and Canada.
As family members have moved away from their original birthplaces and heritage, they have also found various other occupations, such as diamond cutting, construction, medicine, teaching and finance.
Khalil Rashow or Xelîl Cindî Reşo (born 1952) is a contemporary Yazidi academic, writer and researcher.
He was born in the village of Mam Rasha in district of Sheikhan in Mosul province in northern Iraq.
From 1970 to 1974 he studied at the department of Kurdish language and literature of University of Baghdad.
He moved to Czechoslovakia in 1986 and received his PhD from the Oriental Institute of Charles University in Prague in 1991.
From 1985 to 1991 he was the head of Society of Kurdish Students in Europe (KSSE).
After the fall of communism, he sought refuge in Germany in 1992.
He has been teaching Kurdish language at the University of Göttingen since 1996.
From 1999 to 2005 he has conducted research in cooperation with Professor Kreyenbroek on Yazidi religious beliefs.
He is considered as an authority on Yazidi folklore.
tv is a British documentary television program, which has aired weekdays at 7:55pm on Channel 4 since 5 July 2010.
The series consists of personal short films, in which a single speaker reflects on religious and ethical issues, and aspects of spiritual lives.
The shorts challenge traditional views, and provide a platform for both scepticism and devout religious beliefs.
Hardesty Public School District is a public school district in Hardesty, Texas County, Oklahoma, United States.
In May 2007 ABC News featured a report on religious discrimination the Smalkowski family suffered from Hardesty school officials.
The report included information about an ongoing lawsuit, which was filed by American Atheists on behalf of the Smalkowski family.
The lawsuit alleges the Hardesty public schools violated Nicole Smalkowski's (a 13-year-old girl) constitutional rights after kicking her off the school basketball team and suspending her for refusing to join a prayer circle at a sports event.
American Atheists cite school officials and other students harassed Smalkowski and her family because of her lack of religious beliefs, and in one case that the school principal assaulted her father.
The school district disputes these claims.
The parties reached a settlement in October 2008, with the school district paying an undisclosed amount to the Smalkowskis.
The House Urns culture was an early Iron Age culture of the 7th century BC in central Germany, in the Region between Harz Mountains and the junction of river Saale to river Elbe.
It was the western periphery of the bronze and Iron Age Lusatian culture.
Urns in the shape of house models were its characteristical sign.
They were set in gravefields that had already been used for centuries.
but sometimes in these gravefields they were deposited in stone cists that were an innovation.
So it is considered that religious beliefs changed in that time, though the bias was not as great as in the Mediterranean region and in the area of Hallstatt culture.
Archeologists see an obvious connection to the Pomeranian culture of the same age.
The relation to the pre-Etruscan Villanovan culture, which had its summit about 1 ½ centuries before, is questioned.
The Royal and Conciliar San Carlos Seminary is the archdiocesan seminary of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Manila.
It was established in the year 1702, by decree of King Philip V of Spain.
At present, the institution houses seminarians belonging to various dioceses in Luzon, particularly from the Metro Manila region.
There are ten priests of the Archdiocese of Manila that cater to the formation program of seminarians for the School Year 2015–2016.
San Carlos Seminary was the first diocesan seminary established in the Philippines.
In 1562, the Council of Trent decreed that every bishop should establish in his diocese a center of clerical education which would serve as a seedbed of the diocesan clergy.
In 1581, Bishop Domingo Salazar, OP, decreed the establishment of a seminary to prepare the indigenous natives for the priesthood and for ecclesiastical dignities.
Even if, in spite of several attempts, his dream could not crystallize until a century and a quarter later, the church and the state did what the poverty of the colony and other adverse circumstances would allow as a provisional solution.
Colleges where ecclesiastical and religious native vocations might be fostered were founded, from the beginnings of the 17th century onwards: Colegio de San José (1601) of the Jesuits, Colegio de Santo Tomás (1611) of the Dominicans, Colegio de San Juan de Letrán and Colegio de San Pedro y San Pablo (1632).
Although these schools fostered training for future priests, a diocesan seminary was still needed.
In 1592, King Philip II of Spain enjoined that the pertinent decree of Trent be implemented in the “Indies.” He ordered all archbishops and bishops of the Indies to found and support seminaries decreed by the Council of Trent for the formation of a local (native) clergy.
Since the Philippines was then under the “Patronato Real” system, on April 28, 1702, King Philip V of Spain ordered the establishment of a seminary in Manila for eight seminarians.
However, this plan was modified by Abbe Giovanni Battista Sidoti, an Italian priest accompanying Archbishop Charles Thomas Maillard de Tournon, papal legate to Peking, on the way to China.
He worked for the erection in Manila of an Asian regional seminary for seventy-two seminarians of the Far East, with the approval of Archbishop Diego Camacho y Avila.
The seminary was named Real Colegio Seminario de San Clemente in honor of Pope Clement XI.
Having learned of the development, the King ordered the closure and demolition of the seminary building, the execution of his original plan, and the transfer of Archbishop Camacho to Mexico.
From 1702 to 1730, the seminarians took their courses of philosophy and theology at the Colegio de San Jose and Colegio de Santo Tomas.
The number of seminarians increased several times.
On December 8, 1707, Archbishop Francisco de la Cuesta, O.S.H., Camacho’s successor, opened the seminary.
In 1715, he renamed the seminary to Real Seminario de San Felipe in honor of the King’s patron saint.
It was located in front of his palace in Intramuros.
In 1728, Archbishop Carlos Bermúdez de Castro had a dispute with the governor-general over his right to nominate professors in San Felipe.
He argued that the seminary was an ecclesiastical institution to be administered by the archbishop in conformity with the decrees of the Council of Trent and the laws of the Indies.
His successor, Archbishop Juan Angel Rodríguez, continued de Castro’s fight over the archbishop’s right to guide the seminary.
However, the civil authorities, under the pretext of Patronato Real, rebuffed them.
The impetus for a review of how the “Patronato Real” administered the seminary came when Bishop Miguel Lino de Espeleta of Cebu became acting governor-general of the Philippines from 1759 to 1761.
He insisted that the royal treasury pay its obligations to the seminary which amounted to 54,000 pesos from 1705 to 1759.
The royal treasury had committed 1,200 pesos for the yearly maintenance of the seminary.
Hence, during the 54 years of the seminary, the royal contribution to the seminary averaged only 200 pesos a year.
The British invasion in 1762 dispersed the seminarians.
It was only on January 25, 1768 that the seminary was re-opened by Archbishop Basilio Sancho de Santa Justa y Rufina, naming it Colegio Seminario Ecclesiástico de Manila.
It was placed under the royal patronage of King Charles II.
On November 16, 1778, the King ordered a visitation of the seminary.
As a result, reforms were instituted, and the magnificent buildings of the expelled Jesuits, the Church and Colegio de San Ignacio were assigned to the diocesan seminary.
For some thirty years (1784–1817), the Colegio de San José and the diocesan seminary, which began to be called in 1786 as Real Seminario Conciliar de San Carlos in honor of the King, existed side by side.
San Carlos was located from 1784 to 1880 on Real de Palacio St. (now General Luna Street) and Calle Escuela (now Victoria Street).
The Congregation of the Mission (C.M.
), familiarly known as Vincentian Fathers, took charge over the seminary on August 2, 1862, under the patronage of Queen Isabella II and with the support of Archbishop Gregorio Meliton Martinez de Santa Cruz.
Gregorio Velasco became the first Vincentian Rector of the conciliar Seminary.
Earthquakes in 1852, 1863, and 1880 damaged the Church of San Ignacio and the seminary building itself.
Following the last earthquake, the Vincentians temporarily moved their charges to their Casa del Ocampo at 959 San Marcelino Street (1880–1883).
In 1883, Archbishop Pedro Payo, O.P.
constructed a new seminary building between the new Jesuit church of San Ignacio and the Archbishop’s property on Arzobispo Street.
The building was rented in 1925 by the Ateneo de Manila and was called “Patio de San Javier.” At present, it is the quarters for the employees of the Intramuros guest house of the archdiocese.
In 1897, the seminary was installed in a new building built under the direction of Archbishop Bernardino Nozaleda.
It occupied a whole block bordered by Beaterio, Anda, and Real de Palacio (Gen. Luna) Streets.
The seminary stayed in this building for only a year (1897–1898).
With the advent of the revolution, the Archbishop ordered its closure.
The building, for a while leased by the Americans, became known as St. Paul’s Hospital, under the charge of St. Paul de Chartres Sisters and later of the Maryknoll Sisters.
Between the years 1900–1911, the seminary existed in an old building along Arzobispo Street beside the new San Ignacio Church.
On May 20, 1905, the administration of the seminary was turned over by the American Archbishop Jeremiah Harty to the Jesuits.
This arrangement under the Jesuits lasted for only six years until August 17, 1911.
In the next two years, San Carlos was fused with Seminario de San Javier (the name given by the Jesuits, upon their return to the Philippines, to Colegio de San José) on Padre Faura Street.
The few seminarians then went to San Javier for their studies until 1913, when San Javier was closed.
For economic reasons, on May 19, 1913, Archbishop Harty decided to transfer seminarians to a renovated building in Mandaluyong, which was constructed by the Augustinians in 1716 and had been abandoned since around 1900.
In June 1913, the Vincentians were again put in charge of the seminary.
The seminary’s name in honor of San Carlos Borromeo became by then definite.
In 1927, to separate the major seminarians from the minor seminarians, San Carlos was again housed at Casa de Ocampo in San Marcelino (in the grounds of Adamson University).
In 1936, due to the construction of a new building in San Marcelino, the major seminarians joined the minor seminarians in Mandaluyong.
The following years, San Carlos Seminary went back to San Marcelino in the newly constructed Central House of the Vincentian Fathers.
In 1941, the major and minor seminarians were again reunited in Mandaluyong.
The Second World War closed the seminary.
By 1946, everyone was back in Mandaluyong.
In 1916, Archbishop Harty was succeeded by Michael O’Doherty, who administered the archdiocese until 1949.
Cebu Archbishop Gabriel M. Reyes, who became Manila’s first Filipino local ordinary in 1949, planned and ordered the construction of the new San Carlos Seminary at Makati.
In 1951, he blessed the cornerstone for the new building of San Carlos Seminary in Guadalupe, Makati along Highway 54 (now Epifanio de los Santos Avenue or EDSA).
Archbishop Reyes died in October 1952.
On January 24, 1953, Thomas Norman Gilroy, Cardinal Archbishop of Sydney and papal legate to the First Plenary Council of the Philippines, blessed the new building.
The Manila seminarians and professors transferred from Mandaluyong to the new San Carlos Seminary to begin the school year 1953–1954.
The new seminary building was constructed to house the major and minor seminarians of the Archdiocese of Manila (Pampanga was still included).
The right wing would be occupied by the minor seminarians and the left wing by the major seminarians.
In the middle of the building is the common chapel and in the basement, the refectory.
In 1951, the Congregation of the Immaculate Heart of Mary (C.I.C.M., known as the Belgian or Scheut Fathers) had been asked by Rome to take up the formation of the seminarians in Lipa, where Bishop Rufino J. Santos, D.D., (to become Manila’s archbishop in 1953 and the first Filipino cardinal in 1960) was then the administrator of the diocese.
On June 10, 1953, it was announced that the C.I.C.M.
Fathers would take over the administration of San Carlos Seminary from the Vincentians and that the major seminarians (theology and philosophy) of Lipa would join the Manila seminarians in San Carlos.
The transfer took place on the June 15 and 16 and on June 25, the new school year started with the Mass of the Holy Spirit.
In 1955, the minor seminarians were then separated from the philosophers and theologians of San Carlos Seminary.
They transferred to the newly erected minor seminary under the name of Our Lady of Guadalupe Minor Seminary, which was blessed on August 22, 1955.
It was located a block away from San Carlos Seminary in the direction of the Pasig River.
In 1973, Cardinal Santos turned over the seminary administration from the C.I.C.M.
Fathers to the diocesan priests led by Oscar Cruz, who later became Auxiliary Bishop of Manila in 1976.
The cardinal died on September 3, 1973.
On March 19, 1974, Archbishop Jaime Lachica Sin of Jaro, Iloilo, later to be elevated to the College of Cardinals in 1976, was installed archbishop of Manila.
With a vision for a unified formation of the candidates to the priesthood and of the laity, Cardinal Sin added new structures within the grounds of the old San Carlos Seminary in Manila.
Manila auxiliary bishop Protacio Gungon succeeded Bishop Cruz as rector in 1978.
Two years later, Most Rev.
Gaudencio Rosales, who would later become Archbishop of Manila became rector.
In 1982, Msgr.
Ramon Arguelles succeeded Rosales, and was rector for the next four years.
The seminary vice-rector, Msgr.
Francisco De Leon, began his five-year feat as rector in 1986.
The construction of the new building of the San Carlos Graduate School of Theology and the Archbishop Gabriel M. Reyes Memorial Library began in 1985, and they were completed and blessed by Cardinal Sin and Cebu Archbishop Ricardo Cardinal Vidal on June 29, 1987.
In that same year, the two-winged edifice for the Holy Apostles Senior Seminary (HASS) and the San Lorenzo Ruiz Lay Formation Center (or LayForce) was constructed.
The Lorenzo Mission Institute (LMI), aimed at forming priestly candidates for the missions to the Chinese communities was built in 1989.
In 1990, Bahay-Pari, a house for priests, was put up for the ongoing formation, physical rest and spiritual rejuvenation for the Manila clergy.
On March 13, 1995, the cornerstone of the Holy Apostles’ Senior Seminary was laid to give way to the full-swing formation of the laity at the Layforce Building.
Msgr.
Crisostomo Yalung, then vice-rector of the Lorenzo Mission Institute, became San Carlos’ new rector in 1991.
Upon his elevation as auxiliary bishop of Manila in 1994, he was succeeded as rector by Msgr.
Allen Aganon.
Msgr.
De Leon returned as rector in 1998, and three years later, he was transferred to the Archdiocesan Shrine of Divine Mercy in Mandaluyong City.
Msgr.
Jesus-Romulo Rañada, parish priest of the Transfiguration of Our Lord Parish in Quezon City, was designated as new rector in June 2001.
His term covered the school year 2001–2002.
On August 9, 2002, he was installed parish priest of the Archdiocesan Shrine of the Good Shepherd in Fairview, Quezon City (at present, the Cathedral-Shrine of the Good Shepherd of the Diocese of Novaliches).
On June 11, 2002, Fr.
Edwin Mercado, who was then the executive director of the Lay Formation Center, was installed rector.
Upon Jaime Cardinal Sin’s retirement in 2003, a new, cultured church of Manila was witnessed as five new dioceses were carved out to respond to the surging pastoral needs of the present time, namely, the dioceses of Novaliches, Parañaque, Pasig, Kalookan, and Cubao.
Sin’s successor was a former rector of the seminary, Lipa Archbishop Gaudencio Rosales, who was installed as archbishop on November 21, 2003.
Like Sin, Rosales was elevated to the College of Cardinals, which took place on March 24, 2006.
Cardinal Sin, who have been known through the entire years of his ministry for his gratuitous support and concern for the seminary, died on June 21, 2005.
Since June 1, 2008, Msgr.
Hernando Coronel, former rector of the Manila Cathedral, and also former secretary-general of the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines, is the present father of the institution.
Most Rev.
Luis Antonio Tagle, then Bishop of Imus, was named Archbishop of Manila on October 13, 2011.
Chito to San Carlos as he used to be a Professor at the Theology Department from 1982 to 1985, Archbishop Tagle continues the vision of his predecessor, Cardinal Rosales, to uplift and deepen the formation program of the seminarians through regular pastoral and theological updating and strengthening the seminary's thrust in human formation of the seminarians.
He was elevated to the College of Cardinals on November 24, 2012 by Pope Benedict XVI.
Some of the historic events that took place in San Carlos Seminary were the following: the Second Plenary Council of the Philippines (January 20 to February 17, 1991); the Sixth Plenary Assembly of the Federation of Asian Bishops' Conferences (January 10–19, 1995); the grace-filled visit of Pope John Paul II (January 15, 1995); the National Pastoral Consultation on Church Renewal (January 20–27, 2001); and the Second National Rural Congress (July 7–8, 2008).
Through the years, the seminary has produced many dedicated and zealous men who have served for the mission of the Church.
Some of San Carlos Seminary's distinguished alumni are GOMBURZA priests Mariano Gomez and Jacinto Zamora, priest-martyrs who became inspiration for Philippine independence during Spanish times, Rufino Santos, the first Filipino Cardinal, Ricardo Vidal, Cardinal Archbishop of Cebu, Bishop Nereo Odchimar, the newly elected president of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of the Philippines, and many bishops and priests who dedicatedly served the Church.
The seminary is considered a national architectural heritage, since its architect during the building construction of 1951 to 1952 is Juan Nakpil, National Artist for Architecture.
San Carlos Seminary gives the formation to prospective priests primarily for the Archdiocese of Manila.
Nevertheless, the seminary also accepts seminarians from other dioceses in the country and abroad in special arrangements.
A young man is accepted after rigorous screening.
A high school diploma and baptismal certificate are the minimum requirements, yet standards of intelligence and psychological maturity must also be met.
The priestly formation is holistic.
The seminary organizes its programs of formation under five main aspects: "The whole work of priestly formation would be deprived of the necessary foundation if it lacked a suitable human formation.
Human formation is the basis of all priestly formation.
So we see that the human formation of the priest shows its special importance when related to the receivers of the mission: in order that the ministry may be humanly as credible and acceptable as possible, it is important that the priest should mould his human personality in such a way that it becomes a bridge and not an obstacle for them in their meeting Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of man" (Pope John Paul II, Pastores dabo vobis, 43) "Spiritual formation should be conducted in such a way that the students may learn to live in intimate and unceasing union with God the Father through his Son Jesus Christ, in the Holy Spirit.
Those who are to take on the likeness of Christ the priest by sacred ordination should form the habit of drawing close to him as friends in every detail of their lives.
They should live his paschal mystery in such a way that they will know how to initiate into it the people committed to their charge.
They should be taught to seek Christ in faithful meditation on the word of God and in active participation in the sacred mysteries of the Church, especially in the Eucharist and the Divine Office, to seek him in the bishop by whom they are sent and in the people to whom they are sent, especially the poor, little children, the weak, sinners and unbelievers.
With the confidence of sons they should love and reverence the most blessed Virgin Mary, who was given as a mother to the disciple by Jesus Christ as he was dying on the cross" (Pastores dabo vobis, 45, quoted from Vatican II, Optatam Totius, 8) "Of special importance is the capacity to relate to others.
This is truly fundamental for a person who is called to be responsible for a community and to be a 'man of communion'.
This demands that the priest not be arrogant, or quarrelsome, but affable, hospitable, sincere in his words and heart, prudent and discreet, generous and ready to serve, capable of opening himself to clear and brotherly relationships and of encouraging the same in others, and quick to understand, forgive and console."
"To be pastorally effective, intellectual formation is to be integrated with a spirituality marked by a personal experience of God.
In this way a purely abstract approach to knowledge is overcome in favor of that intelligence of heart which knows how to 'look beyond,' and then is in a position to communicate the mystery of God to the people."
"The whole formation imparted to candidates for the priesthood aims at preparing them to enter into communion with the charity of Christ the good shepherd.
Hence, their formation in its different aspects mush have a fundamentally pastoral character.
Hence, they should be trained for the ministry of the word, the ministry of worship and sanctification, and the ministry of the shepherd, that they may know how to represent Christ to humanity, Christ who 'did not come to have service done to him but to serve others and to give his life as a ransom for the lives of many' (Mk.
The Council text insists upon the coordination of the different aspects of human, spiritual and intellectual formation.
At the same time it stresses that they are all directed to a specific pastoral end.
This pastoral aim ensures that the human, spiritual and intellectual formation has certain precise content and characteristics; it also unifies and gives specificity to the whole formation of future priests.
Apostolate works, catechetics and seminars outside are some of the programs in line with the Pastoral Formation."
The sum total of a seminarian's training is for him to grow in his identification with Jesus Christ.
In response to grace, he builds up his commitment – to personal sanctification, to discernment of his vocation, to constancy in prayer, to diligence and competence in studies, to pastoral involvement.
In the final years prior to ordination, he sees himself and his mission as "animated by the love of God, entrusted to the maternal care of Mary, committed to a life of prayer and discernment grounded in the Mass, to self-discovery and self-acceptance, to simplicity, chastity, humility and docility, to study and work, to the appreciation of faith."
The seminary formation comprises three stages: Pre-College or Juniorate (although at present, it is called Formation Year Department), Philosophy, and Theology.
LAZARO ABACO Religious Education and Psychology (SY 1984–1985 until 1986–1987) Spiritual Growth (SY 1985–1986, 1986–1987) MSGR.
SEVERINO ANATALIO, HP, JCD Latin (SY 1976–1977, 1977–1978) Religious Education (SY 1977–1978) MAXELL LOWELL ARANILLA, PhD Metaphysics, Theodicy (SY 2003–2004 to present) Philosophy of Education, Epistemology (SY 2004–2005 to present) MSGR.
JESUS-NORRIEL BANDOJO, PC Christian Formation (SY 1983–1984) Methodology, Urbanity, Special Latin (SY 1984–1985) College Theology (SY 1989–1990 to SY 1992–1993) Fundamental Values, Spirituality and Growth, Seminary Formation (SY 1989–1990, 1990–1991) Prayer Basics and Christian Spirituality (SY 1991–1992 and 1992–1993) Human and Christian Values, Group Processing (SY 1993–1994) JOSELITO BUENAFE, STh.L Social Doctrines of the Church (SY 2007–2008 to present) Basic Faith Catechism (SY 2008–2009 to present) MSGR.
NESTOR CERBO, PC, STh.D Christian Maturity and Living, Seminary Formation (SY 1992–1993, 1993–1994) EDGARDO COROZA Latin (SY 2000–2001) EDGARDO DEVIÑA Cosmology (SY 1995–1996) Christian Maturity, Logic (SY 1999–2000) GENARO DIWA, SLL Solfeggio (SY 1995–1996, 1996–1997) Latin (SY 1996–1997, 1997–1998) LORENZ MOISES J. FESTIN, PhD Introduction to Philosophy (SY 2004–2005 to present) Metaphysics (SY 1999–2000 to 2001–2002) Moral Philosophy, Social Philosophy, Cosmology, (SY 1998–1999 to present) Modern Philosophy (SY 1998–1999 to 2009–2010) Contemporary Philosophy (SY 1998–1999 to 2008–2009) Thesis Writing and Seminar (SY 2008–2009 to present) Philosophical Synthesis (SY 2002–2003 to present) ALBERT CECILIO FLORES, STh.D cand.
Latin (SY 2006–2007 to present) ROLANDO GARCIA JR., STh.L units Introduction to the Sacred Scriptures (SY 2007–2008 to 2009–2010) Seminary Study Habits (SY 2008–2009, 2009–2010) Challenges of the Philippine Church Today (SY 2008–2009) GREGORY RAMON GASTON, STh.D Latin (SY 1997–1998) Christian Values (SY 2002–2003) GENEROSO GERONIMO Latin (SY 1995–1996) Catholic Doctrines (SY 1995–1996 to 1997–1998, 1999–2000, 2001–2002) Christian Spirituality (SY 1998–1999, 2001–2002) Christian Living, Human Formation (SY 1999–2000, 2000–2001) Prayer Basics, Self-Discovery (SY 2001–2002) Liturgy – Altar Serving (SY 2006–2007) College Theology (SY 1995–1996, 2001–2002, 2002–2003) Social Doctrines of the Church (SY 2000–2001) MSGR.
NORBERTO HABOS, PC Latin (SY 2005–2006) YULITO Q. IGNACIO, STh.L College Theology (SY 1998–1999) Spirituality (SY 2002–2003, 2003–2004) JASON LAGUERTA, MA Latin (SY 2000–2001 to 2010–2011) Social Psychology (SY 2006–2007 to 2010–2011) NSTP-LTS (SY 2002–2003 to 2010–2011) Religious Education (SY 2003–2004 to 2010–2011) Social Doctrines of the Church (SY 2003–2004 to 2006–2007) MSGR.
ESTEBAN LO, PC, LRMS Oriental Philosophy (SY 1996–1997, 1997–1998) History of Filipino-Chinese Apostolate, History of Christianity in China (SY 2002–2003 to 2004–2005) REX MAGALLANES Liturgical Music (SY 1979–1980) Catechetics (SY 1980–1981) REGINALD MALICDEM Thesis Writing and Seminar (SY 2005–2006 to 2007–2008) LEO NILO MANGUSSAD, BM Music (SY 1988–1989 to 1995–1996, 1997–1998 to 1999–2000, 2003–2004, 2004–2005) CARLO MAGNO MARCELO Salvation History (SY 1997–1998, 2003–2004 to 2005–2006) Christian Values, Basic Faith Catechism (SY 2002–2003 to 2006–2007) Liturgical Music (SY 2002–2003 to present) Seminary Study Habits (SY 2007–2008) Christian Values (SY 2002–2003 to 2006–2007) EDWIN MERCADO, STh.L The Church Renewed (SY 2005–2006, 2006–2007) Challenges of the Philippine Church Today (SY 2007–2008) MSGR.
DENNIS ODIVER, PC, STB Moral Philosophy, Social Philosophy, Social Doctrines of the Church (SY 1997–1998) GABRIEL PARAAN Latin (SY 1998–1999) CELESTINO V. PASCUAL, STh.L College Theology (SY 1987–1988 to 1990–1991) MSGR.
AUGUSTO PEDROSA, HP, MA Contemporary Economic Problems (SY 1975–1976) MSGR.
GERARDO O. SANTOS, PC, STM, Ed.D Religious Education (SY 1989–1990 to 1991–1992) Christian Maturity and Living (SY 2001–2002) Church History (SY 2005–2006 to present) Catholic Doctrines (SY 2002–2003, 2003–2004) Basic Faith Catechism (SY 2005–2006) Religious Education (SY 2004–2005) ESTANISLAO SORIA, MS (†) College Theology (SY 1987–1988) MSGR.
EMMANUEL V. SUNGA, PC, STh.L, MA Liturgical Music (SY 1979–1980 to 1984–1985) Latin, Physical Education (SY 1980–1981 to 1984–1985) Philippine History (SY 1982–1983 to 1984–1985) JOSE FRANCISCO SYQUIA, STh.L, MA Seminary Formation (SY 2007–2008 to present) Spirituality (SY 2005–2006 to 2006–2007) Basic Faith Catechism (SY 2006–2007) Social Psychology (SY 2005–2006) Christian Values (SY 2004–2005) BENITO TUAZON, BS Physics (SY 1992–1993, 1993–1994) College Theology (SY 1993–1994, 1997–1998) Christian Existence, Basic Orientation, Prayer Basics (SY 1997–1998) ESTELITO VILLEGAS Liturgy (SY 2002–2003 to 2009–2010) Hagiography (SY 2005–2006 to 2009–2010) Practical Arts (SY 2005–2006) REY ANTHONY YATCO College Theology (SY 2003–2004 to present) Hagiography (SY 2010–2011) Introduction to Sacred Scriptures (SY 2003–2004 to 2006–2007) Seminary Study Habits (SY 2010–2011) Liturgy (SY 2010–2011) Spirituality (SY 2004–2005) JOSE VIDAMOR YU, LRMS, D.Miss Oriental Philosophy (SY 2000–2001 to present) Philosophy of Religion (SY 2004–2005 to present) MSGR.
ALLEN AGANON, PC, MA (Diocese of Parañaque) Filipino Psychology (SY 1986–1987) Religious Education (SY 1992–1993) College Theology (SY 1993–1994) Cosmology (SY 1995–1996) Latin (FY – SY 1997–1998) ROLANDO AGUSTIN (Diocese of Parañaque) Latin (SY 1995–1996 to 1999–2000) MSGR.
ALEX AMANDY, HP, JCD (Diocese of Kalookan) Latin (SY 1993–1994 to 1996–1997) RAYMOND JOSEPH ARRE, STh.B (Diocese of Cubao) Bible Study (SY 1992–1993, 1993–1994) Prayer Basics, College Theology (SY 1993–1994) Human Formation (SY 1998–1999) Group Processing (SY 1999–2000) MSGR.
ALFONSO BUGAOAN JR., PC (Diocese of Cubao) Latin (SY 1983–1984 to 1986–1987) College Theology (SY 1984–1985 to 1986–1987) MOST REV.
FRANCISCO M. DE LEON, MS (Diocese of Antipolo) Human Relations (SY 1974–1975, 1975–1976) Latin (SY 1978–1979, 1979–1980, 1981–1982, 1982–1983, 1999–2000, 2000–2001) Catholic Doctrines (SY 1989–1990, 1990–1991) MSGR.
ADOLFO DEPRA, HP, STh.L, PhD (Diocese of Kalibo) Ancient and Medieval Philosophy, Logic, Modern Philosophy, Epistemology (SY 1987–1988) RAMON ELOREAGA (Diocese of Cubao) Christian Spirituality (SY 1997–1998) Prayer Basics (SY 1998–1999, 1999–2000) HENRY FERRERAS, STL (Diocese of Cubao) Christian Spirituality (SY 1993–1994) Social Philosophy, Moral Philosophy (SY 1995–1996 to 1997–1998) MSGR.
ERNESTO JOAQUIN, HP (Diocese of Parañaque) Theodicy, Oriental Philosophy (SY 1975–1976) Jose Antonio C. Gelaga, SMA ( Archdiocese of Cagayan de Oro) Dogmatic and Synthetic Theology (SY 2001-2002)Christian Spirituality (SY 2012-2013) Doctrines of the Church (SY 2013-2014) Fundamental Theology (SY 2014-2015) JAIME LARA, MA (Diocese of Novaliches) College Theology, Thesis Writing, Religious Education, Social Doctrines of the Church (SY 1999–2000) AMBROSIO NONATO LEGASPI, STh.L (Diocese of Novaliches) Christian Spirituality (SY 1994–1995, 1995–1996) Prayer Basics (SY 1995–1996) LEANDRO MAGNAIT JR., STB (Diocese of Kalookan) Christian Values (SY 1991–1992, 1992–1993, 1997–1998) Epistemology (SY 1993–1994, 1996–1997 to 1998–1999) Modern Philosophy (SY 1993–1994, 1994–1995) History of Philosophy (SY 1995–1996) Seminary Formation (SY 1995–1996 to 1998–1999) Introduction to Sacred Scriptures (SY 1998–1999 to 2001–2002) College Theology (SY 1998–1999) RAMIL R. MARCOS, MA, STh.L (Diocese of Pasig) Latin (SY 2001–2002) Social Doctrines of the Church (SY 2000–2001) MELCHOR MONTALBO JR., PhD (Diocese of Parañaque) Cosmology (SY 1987–1988, 1996–1997, 1998–1999 Oriental Philosophy (SY 1987–1988) History of Philosophy (SY 1988–1989 to 1992–1993) Epistemology (SY 1988–1989 to 1992–1993, 1995–1996) Logic, Latin (SY 1989–1990 to 1993–1994) Theodicy (SY 1991–1992, 1992–1993, 1995–1996 to 1998–1999) Metaphysics (SY 1988–1989 to 1993–1994, 1995–1996 to 1997–1998, 2002–2003) Philosophical Anthropology (SY 1993–1994, 1995–1996) Contemporary Philosophy (SY 1995–1996) Philosophy of Religion (SY 1995–1996 to 1998–1999, 2002–2003, 2003–2004) Philosophy of Education (SY 2001–2002) Thesis Writing (SY 1996–1997) Introduction to Philosophy (SY 1998–1999) Philosophical Synthesis (SY 2001–2002) MEDARDO ONG (Diocese of Kalookan) Basic Bible Study, Catholic Doctrines (SY 1989–1990) MOST REV.
SEVERINO PELAYO, PhD (Military Ordinariate) (†) Logic (SY 1977–1978) Metaphysics (SY 1977–1978 to 1979–1980) Oriental Philosophy (SY 1977–1978, 1980–1981, 1984–1985 to 1986–1987) History of Philosophy (SY 1978–1979) Philosophy of Language (SY 1978–1979, 1980–1981) Ancient and Medieval Philosophy (SY 1979–1980 to 1986–1987) Modern Philosophy (SY 1983–1984 to 1986–1987) ISIDRO D. PUYAT, Ph.L (Diocese of Cabanatuan) Logic (SY 2007–2008 to present) MSGR.
JESUS-ROMULO C. RAÑADA, PC, PhD, STh.D (Diocese of Novaliches) Ancient and Medieval Philosophy (SY 1988–1989) Contemporary Philosophy (SY 1992–1993) Philosophy of Religion (SY 1992–1993, 1994–1995, 2001–2002) Social Philosophy, 20th Century Philosophy (SY 1994–1995) Theodicy (SY 1994–1995, 1999–2000 to 2001–2002) Cosmology (SY 2000–2001) ROBERTO REYES, Ph.L (Diocese of Cubao) Theodicy (SY 1987–1988) Philosophy of Religion (SY 1988–1990, 1990–1991) Contemporary Philosophy (SY 1987–1988 to 1990–1991) MARIA, PC, MS Ch.E, MBA (Diocese of Cubao) Algebra (SY 1979–1980) FERDINAND SANTOS, PhD (Diocese of Cubao) English (SY 1998–1999) Philosophy of Science (SY 1998–1999 to 2002–2003) Logic (SY 1999–2000) Introduction to Philosophy (SY 1998–1999 to 2003–2004) Philosophy of Education (SY 2002–2003, 2003–2004) Epistemology (SY 1999–2000 to 2003–2004) Theodicy (SY 2002–2003) Social Doctrines of the Church (SY 1998–1999, 2000–2001 to 2002–2003) Metaphysics (SY 1999–2000 to 2001–2002) Oriental Philosophy (SY 1998–1999 to 2001–2002) Christian Spirituality (SY 2000–2001) FRANCISCO SIGUAN JR., MA (Diocese of Parañaque) College Theology, Religious Education, Spiritual Growth (SY 1987–1988) English (SY 2000–2001) Group Processing (SY 2000–2001) ARISTON L. SISON JR., SCSL (Diocese of Cubao) Audio Visual Techniques, Movie Appreciation (SY 1992–1993, 1993–1994) Mass Media and the Social Apostolate of the Church (SY 1995–1996 to present) DENNIS SORIANO (Diocese of Cubao) Latin (SY 2001–2002 to 2005–2006) MSGR.
RAMON TIRAÑA, HP, Ph.L, STh.L (Diocese of Bacolod) (†) College Theology (SY 1985–1986, 1986–1987) JOSE PEREGRINO TOMAS (Diocese of Novaliches) History of Philosophy (SY 1994–1995, 1995–1996) Christian Maturity and Living (SY 1994–1995 to 1999–2000) Catholic Doctrines (SY 1996–1997 to 1998–1999, 2000–2001) Medieval Philosophy (SY 1996–1997, 1997–1998) Modern Philosophy (SY 1996–1997) Solfeggio (SY 1997–1998 to 2001–2002) College Theology (SY 1999–2000 to 2001–2002) Seminary Formation (SY 1999–2000) MOST REV.
MYLO HUBERT VERGARA, STh.D (Diocese of San Jose, NE) College Algebra and Trigonometry (SY 1985–1986) Philosophical Anthropology (SY 1995–1996, 1997–1998 to 1999–2000) ERNESTO ARCEO, OP, PhD Medieval Philosophy (SY 1997–1998) Salvation History (SY 1998–1999) SEBASTIAN FRANCISCO BACATAN JR., AM, PhD Introduction to the Bible (SY 1996–1997, 1997–1998) VICTOR BADILLO, SJ, PhD Introduction to the Physical Sciences (SY 1975–1976) Astronomy (SY 1976–1977 to 1980–1981, 1982–1983 to 1985–1986) LINO BANAYAD, SJ (†) Fundamentals of Catechetics (SY 1976–1977 to 1978–1979, 1980–1981) Religious Education (SY 1981–1982, 1982–1983) LEON CORNEROTTE, CICM, Ph.L (†) Cosmology (SY 1974–1975, 1976–1977, 1978–1979 to 1980–1981, 1982–1983 to 1986–1987) Theodicy (SY 1974–1975, 1976–1977, 1978–1979 to 1986–1987) Logic (SY 1981–1982 to 1986–1987) Metaphysics, Epistemology, Philosophy of Religion (SY 1982–1983 to 1986–1987) NICASIO CRUZ, SJ, MA, STh.L Audio-Visual Techniques in Evangelization (SY 1979–1980, 1980–1981, 1982–1983 to 1988–1989) LUIS S. DAVID, SJ, PhD Contemporary Philosophy (SY 2008–2009 to present) Modern Philosophy (SY 2009–2010 to present) GERARD DECAESTECKER, CICM, PhD (†) Logic, Metaphysics (SY 1974–1975 to 1976–1977) Epistemology (SY 1974–1975 to 1977–1978) History of Philosophy (SY 1974–1975 to 1978–1979) GABRIEL FLORES, RCJ, Ph.L, STh.L Oriental Philosophy (SY 1997–1998 to 1999–2000) ENRICO GONZALES, OP, PhD Philosophy of Science (SY 1997–1998) Metaphysics (SY 1998–1999) FELICIANO MANALILI, OCSO Logic, English (SY 1978–1979, 1979–1980) Epistemology, Latin (SY 1980–1981) FRANCIS TE MARVELDE, CICM, MS (†) Latin (SY 1974–1975, 1977–1978 to 1980–1981, 1982–1983 to 1997–1998) Religious Psychology (SY 1974–1975 to 1976–1977) College Theology (SY 1977–1978, 1983–1984, 1984–1985) Basic Orientation (SY 1978–1980, 1980–1981, 1982–1983) RODOLFO SICIO, OSA, STL, MA, Ph.B Advanced Spanish, Philippine Literature in Spanish (SY 1975–1976) JAN VAN DE STEEN, CICM, MA (†) Music (SY 1985–1986, 1986–1987) JOHN ZWAENEPOEL, CICM, PhD (†) Philosophical Anthropology (SY 1974–1975 to 1977–1978) History of Philosophy (SY 1974–1975, 1975–1976) Ethics, Ethical Anthropology (SY 1974–1975 to 1977–1978, 1982–1983 to 1992–1993) Social Philosophy (SY 1976–1977 to 1980–1981, 1982–1983 to 1992–1993) 20th Century Philosophy (SY 1976–1977, 1977–1978, 1981–1982, 1982–1983 to 1986–1987) General Psychology (SY 1978–1979 to 1980–1981) Phenomenological Psychology (SY 1981–1982 to 1992–1993) CELINE BELEN, CFIC, BM, MA Music (SY 1987–1988) FELICIDAD DACAYANAN, MIC, MS, PhD Social Encyclicals (SY 1975–1976) ROSALYN DOROMAL, DC Religious Education (SY 1982–1983) ANGELINA FERNANDO, RVM Music (SY 1992–1993, 1993–1994) HARRIET HORMILLOSA, SSJ, MA World Literature (SY 1983–1984) MILAGROS IBAÑEZ, DSP Audio-Visual Techniques in Catechetics (SY 1978–1979) ANGELITA MARAVE, MACE, STh.L English Grammar and Composition, Catholic Doctrines, Religious Education (SY 1993–1994) Initiation to the Gospels (SY 1995–1996) LYDIA PAOLA MARAVE, MACE, PhD Catholic Doctrines (SY 1991–1992, 1992–1993) Initiation to the Gospels (SY 1995–1996, 1996–1997) Thesis Writing (SY 1997–1998, 1998–1999, 2000–2001 to 2004–2005) Logic (SY 1998–1999, 2000–2001, 2001–2002) ROCIANA MENDOZA, ICM, MA Introduction to Biological Sciences (SY 1978–1979) GRACIANA RAYMUNDO, DC, MA Music (SY 1974–1975 to 1977–1978, 1981–1982 to 1986–1987) GEORGINA SANDICO, DC Religious Education (SY 1982–1983) LUCIANA SARMIENTO, DSP Religious Psychology (SY 1979–1980) Religious Education (SY 1980–1981, 1981–1982) VICTORIA TERRENATE, SSJ, MA Trigonometry (SY 1979–1980) ENRIQUE LAZATIN, FSC, MA Cosmology, Religious Education (SY 1975–1976) JOAQUIN PREYSLER, OSB Physical Education (SY 1979–1980) MRS. SANDRA ABAD SANTOS Human Values (SY 1997–1998 to 2003–2004) Christian Values (SY 1998–1999 to 2000–2001) MR. PERFECTO ABAYAN, PhD (†) Economics (SY 1993–1994 to 2006–2007) Sociology (SY 1995–1996 to 2006–2007) Philippine History (SY 2000–2001) MS. JO ABERIA Sociology (SY 1983–1984) MR. REYNALDO AGUILAR, MA Filipino (SY 1978–1979 to 1981–1982) MR. LEOPOLDE ALMONTE, BS Biology, Zoology (SY 1985–1986) MRS. NINA ANACLETO Filipino, Speech (SY 1986–1987) MRS. MARIBEL MIGUEL-ARARAO, BM Music (SY 2002–2003 to present) MRS. CONSUELO ASIS, MS, MAT (†) Botany (SY 1984–1985) CAPT.
DANILO BAGUIO, PA Military Science (SY 1995–1996, 1996–1997) ALFREDO BAJARO, PA, BSBA Military Science (SY 1986–1987) CAPT.
ELEODORO BALMATER, PA Military Science (SY 1984–1985, 1985–1986) MRS. HERMINIA BALASTIGUE Mathematics (SY 1980–1981) LOURDES BERNADETTE BANSON Human Values (SY 1994–1995, 1995–1996, 1997–1998) MS. MARIETTA BAUTISTA, MA Elementary Statistics (SY 1985–1986 to 1988–1989) Algebra (SY 1986–1987 to 1988–1989) MRS. JOSEFINA BEJASA English (SY 2001–2002) MR. BENJAMIN BERNALES, PhD cand.
General Sociology, Social Problems (SY 1989–1990 to 1993–1994) MR. YOLANDO BERONQUE, PhD College Algebra (SY 1980–1981) MR. CELESTINO BIOCO, MA Sociology (SY 1982–1983 to 1984–1985) MS. PAULITA BONIFACIO (†) Speech and Drama, Oral Interpretation (SY 1987–1988 to 1989–1990) MS. MARIVIC BONTO-KANE, MA Psychology (SY 1983–1984 to 1986–1987) MR. JOSE BOTIN, BS Introduction to Biological Science (SY 1979–1980) MRS. LIGLIWA F. CAINDEC Introduction to Biological Sciences (SY 1980–1981) MR. CELSO CAINGLET, Ph.L Ancient Greek and Medieval Philosophy (1998–1999 to present) Philosophy of Science (SY 2003–2004 to present) MEDWIN CALIWANAGAN Practical Arts (SY 1995–1996 to 2004–2005) VIRGILIO CAPATI, PA Military Science (SY 1997–1998 to 1999–2000) MRS. ZINNIA CARIASA-ARCINUE Psychology, Statistics (SY 1982–1983) MR. CAMILO CASALS, MPS, MA units Economics (SY 1989–1990 to 1992–1993) MR. BENJAMIN CASTILLO, BSE (†) Physical Education (SY 1975–1976 to 1978–1979) MRS. MARIFEL CASTRICIONES Basic Faith Catechism, Challenges of the Philippine Church Today (SY 2009–2010 to present) MS. HONORINA ROWENA CASTRO, MA units English Grammar (SY 1994–1995) MS. JOCELYN CELIS, M.Ed Fundamentals of Catechetics (SY 1995–1996) MRS. DIANA CERDA English (SY 2000–2001, 2001–2002) ATTY.
JOSE CERVANIA, LL.B, MA Spanish 1 & 2 (SY 1974–1975) MRS. GERRIE AN CHENG, MA cand.
MR. WILSON CHUA, MA Political Science, Philippine History (SY 1985–1986, 1986–1987) ATTY.
RONY CIRILOS, LLB Political Science and Rizal (SY 1989–1990 to 1994–1995) Philippine History (SY 1989–1990) TERESA CONDE, BSE English Grammar (SY 1995–1996, 1996–1997) MRS. FLORENCIA CORPUZ, MA cand.
College Algebra (SY 1994–1995, 1995–1996) MR. RODRIGO CORPUZ Physical Education (SY 1985–1986 to present) MS. MILA CORTEZ, MA English (SY 1995–1996 to 1997–1998, 1999–2000, 2000–2001) Self-Discovery, Group Processing (SY 1995–1996 to 1999–2000) MR. ARSENIO CRISOSTOMO, BM Music (SY 2000–2001 to present) MRS. LOURDES DALUPAN, MA Spanish and English (SY 1975–1976 to 1979–1980) MS. MARY ANN DALUPAN, MA cand.. Group Dynamics (SY 1990–1991 to 1992–1993) MS. VICITACION R. DE LA TORRE, MA (Lingui) English Composition, Philippine Literature, Drama, Poetry (SY 1974–1975) Mr. JESUS ANGELO DELA CRUZ Religious Education (SY 2000–2001, 2001–2002, 2002–2003) MS. KREMHILDA DIDELES, MAT College Algebra, Physics (SY 1985–1986, 1986–1987) Earth and Universe, Trigonometry (SY 1986–1987) MRS. NANETTE GARCIA-DUNGO, PhD Sociology (SY 2006–2007 to present) Economics (SY 2007–2008 to present) MRS. AMY TOLOSA-DUREMDES, MA Marriage and Family Life (SY 1989–1990) MRS. NARITA TANCHOCO-ELLAR, MA General Psychology (SY 1992–1993 to present) Social Psychology (SY 1992–1993 to 2004–2005) Self-Discovery, Group Processing (SY 1997–1998) MRS. BABY CARILLO-ENDAYA Catechetics (SY 1976–1977 to 1979–1980) MR. DANIEL ESCASA, BS Statistics, Trigonometry, Introduction to Biological Sciences, College Algebra (SY 1984–1985) MRS. NENITA OBAN-ESCASA, Litt.B, MA English (SY 1981–1982 to 1993–1994, 2002–2003 to present) Filipino (SY 1984–1985, 1985–1986, 1987–1988, 1988–1989) MRS. LINDA FABULA, MA College Algebra, Trigonometry, Statistics (SY 1996–1997 to present) MR. REYNALDO FAJARDO, MA Philippine Constitution (SY 1981–1982 to 1984–1985) Asian History (SY 1983–1984, 1984–1985) MRS. ALBINA FERNANDEZ, MIR English (SY 1981–1982, 1982–1983) MRS. APRICINIA FERNANDEZ, Litt.B English (SY 1975–1976 to 1979–1980, 1981–1982, 1982–1983) Sociology (SY 1975–1976 to 1979–1980) MR. LIGORIO FERNANDEZ, BSE Laboratory Physics (SY 1974–1975) MR. PASCUAL FERNANDEZ, BSC Music (SY 1978–1979) MRS. GILDA GARBANZOS General Psychology, Educational Psychology, Developmental Psychology (SY 1980–1981) MR. JESUS GARCIA, MS Zoology, Botany (SY 1975–1976, 1976–1977) Chemistry (SY 1975–1976) MR. JOSE GARCIA, MA Audio-Visual Techniques in Evangelization, Movie Appreciation (SY 1989–1990) Arts (SY 1990–1991) MS. NIEVES GONZAGA, MS, PhD units General Psychology, Social Psychology (SY 1986–1987, 1989–1990) MS. CYNTHIA GREGORIO, PhD Earth and Universe
Celtic Reconstructionist Paganism (also Celtic Reconstructionism or CR) is a polytheistic reconstructionist approach to Celtic neopaganism, emphasising historical accuracy over eclecticism such as is found in many forms of Neo-druidism.
It is an effort to reconstruct and revive, in a modern Celtic cultural context, pre-Christian Celtic religions.
Celtic Reconstructionist Paganism originated in discussions among amateur scholars and Neopagans in the mid-1980s, and evolved into an independent tradition by the early 1990s.
Currently, "Celtic Reconstructionist Paganism" (CR) is an umbrella term, with a number of recognized sub-traditions or denominations.
As modern paganism grew in scope and cultural visibility, some Americans of European heritage saw the pre-Christian religions of their ancestors as being worthy of revival, and the study of mythology and folklore as a way to accomplish this.
While most Neodruid groups of the period were primarily interested in "revitalizing the spirit of what they believe was the religious practice of pre-Roman Britain", the Celtic Reconstructionists (CRs) focused on only "reconstructing what can be known from the extant historical record."
Many of the people who eventually established CR were involved in modern pagan groups in the 1970s and 1980s.
Much dialogue in the 1980s took place at workshops and discussions at pagan festivals and gatherings, as well as in the pages of pagan publications.
This period, and these groups, are referred to in retrospect as "Proto-CR".
Later, with the establishment of the Internet in the late 1980s and early 1990s, many of these groups and individuals came together online.
This began a period of increased communication, and led to the growth of the movement.
The first appearance in print of the term "Celtic Reconstructionist", used to describe a specific religious movement and not just a style of Celtic studies, was by Kym Lambert ní Dhoireann in the Spring, 1992 issue of Harvest Magazine.
Ní Dhoireann credits Kathryn Price NicDhàna with originating the term “Celtic Reconstructionist”; however, NicDhàna credits her early use of the term to a simple extrapolation of Margot Adler's use of the term "Pagan reconstructionists" in the original, 1979 edition of Drawing Down the Moon.
Though Adler devotes space to a handful of Reconstructionist traditions, none of those mentioned are specifically Celtic.
In chapter eleven, while describing his Neo-druidic group, New Reformed Druids of North America (NRDNA), Isaac Bonewits uses the phrase "Eclectic Reconstructionist."
Eventually, this pairing of terms became oxymoronic; in the pagan/polytheist communities, reconstructionist had now come to mean traditions that specifically exclude eclecticism.
With the growth of the Internet during the 1990s, hundreds of individuals and groups gradually joined the discussions online and in print, and the movement became more of an umbrella group, with a number of recognized sub-traditions.
While the ancient Celtic religions were largely subsumed by Christianity, many religious traditions have survived in the form of folklore, mythology, songs, and prayers.
Many folkloric practices never completely died out, and some Celtic Reconstructionists (CRs) claim to have survivals of Irish, Scottish or Welsh folkloric customs in their families of origin.
Language study and preservation, and participation in other cultural activities such as Celtic music, dance and martial arts forms, are seen as a core part of the tradition.
Participation in the living Celtic cultures - the cultures that exist in the "areas in which Celtic languages are actually spoken and in which Celtic traditions have been most faithfully handed down to the present day" - is a vital part of their cultural work and spiritual practice.
The protection of Celtic archaeological and sacred sites is important to Celtic Reconstructionists.
When construction of the N3 motorway in Ireland threatened to destroy archaeological sites around the Hill of Tara, Celtic Reconstructionists (among others) organized protests and a coordinated ritual of protection.
Like many other modern pagan traditions, Celtic Reconstructionism has no sacred texts and so personal research is stressed.
In order to more fully reconstruct pre-Christian Celtic religions, many CRs study archaeology, historical manuscripts, and comparative religion, primarily of Celtic cultures, but sometimes other European cultures, as well.
Celtic Reconstructionists are not pan-Celtic in practice, but rather immerse themselves in a particular Celtic culture, such as Gaelic, Welsh or Gaulish.
According to Kathryn Price NicDhàna, CRs believe that while it is helpful to study a wide variety of Celtic cultures as an aid to religious reconstruction, and to have a broad understanding of religion in general, in practice these cultures are not lumped together.
In addition to cultural preservation and scholarly research Celtic Reconstructionists believe that mystical, ecstatic practices are a necessary balance to scholarship, and that this balance is a vital component of any Celtic Reconstructionist tradition.
While CRs strive to revive the religious practices of historical Celtic peoples as accurately as possible, they acknowledge that some aspects of their religious practice are reconstructions.
Celtic Reconstructionists state that their practices are based on cultural survivals, augmented with the study of early Celtic beliefs found in texts and the work of scholars and archaeologists.
Feedback from scholars and experienced practitioners is sought before a new practice is accepted as a valid part of a reconstructed tradition.
Celtic Reconstructionists believe it is important to lay aside elements of ancient Celtic cultures which they consider inappropriate practices in a modern society.
CRs attempt to find ethical ways of integrating historical findings and research with the activities of daily life.
Many CRs view each act of daily life as a form of ritual, accompanying daily acts of purification and protection with traditional prayers and songs from sources such as the Scottish Gaelic Carmina Gadelica or manuscript collections of ancient Irish or Welsh poetry.
Celebratory, community rituals are usually based on community festivals as recorded in folklore collections by authors such as F. Marian McNeill, Kevin Danaher or John Gregorson Campbell.
These celebrations often involve bonfires, dances, songs, divination and children's games.
More formal or mystical rituals are often based on traditional techniques of interacting with the Otherworld, such as the act of making offerings of food, drink and art to the spirits of the land, ancestral spirits, and the Celtic deities.
CRs give offerings to the spirits throughout the year, but at Samhain, more elaborate offerings are made to specific deities and ancestors.
The ancient Irish swore their oaths by the "Three Realms" - Land, Sea and Sky.
Based on this precedent, reconstructed Gaelic ritual structures acknowledge the Land, Sea and Sky, with the fire of inspiration as a central force that unites the realms.
Many Celtic Reconstructionists maintain altars and shrines to their patron spirits and deities, often choosing to place them at outdoor, natural locations such as wells, streams, and special trees.
Some CRs practice divination; ogham is a favored method, as are folkloric customs such as the taking of omens from the shapes of clouds or the behavior of birds and animals.
NicDhàna and ní Dhoireann have stated that they coined the term "Celtic Reconstructionist / Celtic Reconstructionism (CR)" specifically to distinguish their practices and beliefs from those of eclectic traditions like Wicca and the Neo-druidism of the time.
With ní Dhoireann’s popularization of Celtic Reconstructionism in the neopagan press and then the use of the term by these individuals and others on the Internet, “Celtic Reconstructionism” began to be adopted as the name for this developing spiritual tradition.
Some groups that take a Celtic Reconstructionist approach to ancient Gaelic polytheism call themselves "Gaelic Traditionalists".
Preservation of the living traditions in modern Gaelic (and other modern Celtic) communities has always been a priority in Celtic Reconstructionism.
However, according to The CR FAQ there has been some controversy around the use of the term "Gaelic Traditionalists" by groups outside of the Gaeltacht and Gàidhealtachd areas of Ireland, Scotland and Nova Scotia.
In the opinion of Isaac Bonewits this is partly because "Gaelic Traditionalists" is a term used almost exclusively by Celtic Christians.
As Kym Lambert ní Dhoireann put it, "Gaelic Traditionalists" means "those living and raised in the living cultures and [who] are keeping their culture, language and music alive, not any of the American polytheistic groups that have been using it lately."
The CR FAQ states that due to those in the Gaelic-speaking areas having a prior claim to the term, most Reconstructionists have been uncomfortable with the choice of other Reconstructionists to call themselves "Traditionalists", a sentiment which Bonewits echoes.
According to the authors of the The CR FAQ, while the disagreement over terminology has at times led to heated discussion, the polytheistic “traditionalists” and “reconstructionists” are taking the same approach to their religion, and there are generally good relations between the founders of both movements.
While Celtic Reconstructionism was the earliest term in use and still remains the most widespread, as the movement progressed other names for a Celtic Reconstructionist approach were also popularized, with varying degrees of success.
Some CR groups have looked to the individual Celtic languages for a more culturally specific name for the tradition, or for their branch of the tradition.
Some Gaelic-oriented groups have used the Scottish Gaelic, ('Paganism, Heathenism') or the Irish version, .
One Gaelic Polytheist group on the East Coast of the US has used a modification of the Gaelic term as ('Paganism of Goddesses').
In 2000, IMBAS, A Celtic Reconstructionist organisation based in Seattle active during the late 1990s to early 2000s, adopted the name Senistrognata, a constructed "Old Celtic" term intended as translating to "ancestral customs".
(pronounced /im-bus/) is an Old Irish word meaning 'poetic inspiration'.
The organization "promotes the spiritual path of Senistrognata, the ancestral customs of the Celtic peoples.
It is a path open to Pagans, Christians, and Ag[n]ostics alike."
Though there has been cross-pollination between Neo-druid and Celtic Reconstructionist groups, and there is significant crossover of membership between the two movements, the two have largely differing goals and methodologies in their approach to Celtic religious forms.
Reconstructionists tend to place high priority on historical authenticity and traditional practice.
Some Neo-druids tend to prefer a modern Pagan, eclectic approach, focusing on "the spirit of what they believe was the religious practice of pre-Roman Britain".
However, some Neo-druid groups (notably, (ADF), the Order of Bards, Ovates and Druids (OBOD), and the Henge of Keltria) adopted similar methodologies of reconstruction, at least some of the time.
ADF, in particular, has long used reconstructionist techniques, but the group has been criticized for their pan-Indo-European scope, which may result in non-Celtic combinations such as "Vedic druids" and "Roman druids".
Terminological differences exist as well, especially in terms of what druid means.
Some Neo-druid groups call anyone with an interest in Celtic spirituality a "druid", and refer to the practice of any Celtic-inspired spirituality as "druidry", while reconstructionist groups usually use the older definition, seeing "druid" as a culturally-specific office that requires decades of training and experience, which is only attained by a small number of practitioners, and which must be conferred and confirmed by the community the druid serves.
Celtic Reconstructionists rely on primary mythological texts, as well as surviving folklore, for the basis of their religious practices.
No list can completely cover all the recommended works, but this is a small sample of sources used.
David Dennis Kagan (born November 9, 1949) is an American prelate of the Roman Catholic Church.
He is the seventh and current bishop of Bismarck.
David Kagan was born in Waukegan, Illinois, and grew up in Spring Grove.
He received the primary education at Saint Peter School in Spring Grove.
He entered the Salvatorian Seminary in St Nazianz, and then studied philosophy at Loras College/St.
Pius X Seminary in Dubuque, and Theology at the Pontifical North American College and Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome.
He followed to obtain licenciate in Canon Law at the Gregoriana (1977–1979).
He was ordained priest on June 14, 1975 in the Diocese of Rockford.
He served at the following assignments: parish vicar of Saint Patrick Parish in Dixon and teacher of religious education at Newman Central Catholic High School in Sterling (1975–1977); teacher of religious education at Boylan Catholic High School in Rockford, and vice-official of Diocesan Tribunal (1979–1984); judicial vicar (1984–1994); parish administrator of Saint Anne Parish in Warren and of Saint Joseph Parish at Apple River (1984–1985); chaplain at the Sisters of St Clare and parish vicar at St Peter's Cathedral in Rockford (1985–1986); pastor of Saint Mary Parish in Byron and teacher of ethics at Saint Anthony College of Nursing in Rockford (1986–1989); and pastor of the Proto-Cathedral of St James in Rockford (1990–1994).
He served as president of the Presbyterial Council, and editor of the Diocesan weekly paper.
Kagan was admitted to the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem as a Knight Commander in March 1995.
In 1994, Kagan was named Vicar General and Moderator of Curia, as well as Honorary Prelate.
In 2011 he was promoted to Protonotary Apostolic.
Kagan was named bishop of Bismarck on October 19, 2011, following the retirement of Bishop Zipfel, 77, after a ministry of fourteen years.
He was consecrated and installed as bishop at Bismarck's Cathedral of the Holy Spirit on Wednesday, November 30, 2011.
Archbishop John Clayton Nienstedt of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Saint Paul and Minneapolis (who, as such, is the Metropolitan Archbishop of the ecclesiastical province that the Diocese of Bismarck is a part of) was the principal consecrator; Bismarck's Bishop Emeritus Zipfel and Bishop Thomas G. Doran of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockford, Illinois, were the principal co-consecrators.
This was the first episcopal consecration at which Archbishop Carlo Maria Vigano represented Pope Benedict XVI in his official capacity as Apostolic Nuncio to the United States.
Cradled in the folds of the Himalayas, Bhutan has relied on its geographic isolation to protect itself from outside cultural influences.
A sparsely populated country bordered by India to the south, and China to the north, Bhutan has long maintained a policy of strict isolationism, both culturally and economically, with the goal of preserving its cultural heritage and independence.
Only in the last decades of the 20th century were foreigners allowed to visit the country, and only then in limited numbers.
In this way, Bhutan has successfully preserved many aspects of its culture, which dates directly back to the mid-17th century.
Modern Bhutanese culture derives from ancient culture.
This culture affected the early growth of this country.
Dzongkha and Sharchop, the principal Bhutanese languages, are closely related to Tibetan, and Bhutanese monks read and write the ancient variant of the Tibetan language, known as chhokey.
The Bhutanese are physically similar to the Tibetans, but history does not record when they crossed over the Himalayas and settled in the south-draining valleys of Bhutan.
Both Tibetans and Bhutanese revere the tantric guru, Padmasambhava, the founder of Himalayan Buddhism in the 8th century.
Bhutanese society is centered around the practice of Buddhism, which is the main religion.
Religious beliefs are evidenced in all aspects of life.
Prayer flags flutter on hillsides, offering up prayers to benefit all nearby sentient beings.
Houses each fly a small white flag on the roof indicating the owner has made his offering payments to appease the local god.
Each valley or district is dominated by a huge dzong, or high-walled fortress, which serves the religious and administrative center of the district.
Approximately 23% of the population is Hindu.
There is a small Muslim population in Bhutan, covering 0.2% of the whole country's population.
Overall, 75% of the population is Buddhist, and 0.4% other religions.
Once every year, a dzong or important village may hold a religious festival, or Tsechu.
Villagers from the surrounding district come for several days of religious observances and socializing while contributing auspicious offerings to the lama or monastery of the festival.
The central activity is a fixed set of religious mask dances, or cham, held in a large courtyard.
Each individual dance takes up to several hours to complete and the entire set may last two to four days.
Observation of the dances directly blesses the audience and also serves to transmit principles of Tantric Buddhism to the villagers.
A number of the dances can be traced directly back to Shabdrung Ngawang Namgyal himself, the founder of Bhutan, and have been passed down essentially unchanged since the mid-17th century.
Prior to dawn on the final day of the tsechu a huge tapestry, or thongdrel, is unfurled in the courtyard of the dzong for several hours.
The mere sight of it is believed to bring spiritual liberation.
The thongdrel is rolled up before the rays of the morning sun can strike it.
Monks join the monastery at six to nine years of age and are immediately placed under the discipleship of a headmaster.
They learn to read chhokey, the language of the ancient sacred texts, as well as Dzongkha and English.
Eventually they will choose between two possible paths: to study theology and Buddhist theory, or take the more common path of becoming proficient in the rituals and personal practices of the faith.
The daily life of the monk is austere, particularly if they are stationed at one of the monasteries located high in the mountains.
At these monasteries food is often scarce and must be carried up by the monks or their visitors.
The monks are poorly clothed for winter conditions and the monasteries are unheated.
The hardship of such a posting is well-recognized; to have a son or brother serving in such a monastery is recognized as very good karma for the family.
A monk's spiritual training continues throughout his life.
In addition to serving the community in sacramental roles, he may undertake several extended silent retreats.
A common length for such a retreat is three years, three months, three weeks and three days.
During the retreat time he will periodically meet with his spiritual master who will test him on his development to ensure that the retreat time is not being wasted.
Each monastery is headed by an abbot who is typically a Lama, although the titles are distinct.
The highest monk in the land is the chief abbot of Bhutan, whose title is Je Khenpo.
He is theoretically equivalent in stature to the king.
The Central Monk Body is an assembly of 600 or so monks who attend to the most critical religious duties of the country.
In the summer they are housed in Thimphu, the nation's capital, and in the winter they descend to Punakha dzong, the most sacred dzong in Bhutan, where Shabdrung Ngawang Namgyal's mortal body has been kept under vigil since the late 17th century.
Bhutanese music has traditional genres such as Zhungdra, Boedra, and a modern genre called Rigsar.
Bhutanese musicians include: Jigme Drukpa, who is also a leading Bhutanese musicologist.
The Driglam Namzha is the official behaviour and dress code of Bhutan.
It governs how citizens should dress in public and how they should behave in formal settings.
It also regulates a number of cultural assets such as art and Bhutanese architecture.
In English, driglam means "order, discipline, custom, rules, regimen" and namzha means "system," though the term may be styled "The Rules for Disciplined Behaviour."
It is a manner and etiquette as what to wear, how to eat, talk and bow down before the government officials and the clergy.
The Driglam Namzha was imposed on all citizens from 1990.
The people of different ethnic heritage for example the Lhotsampas (Bhutanese citizens of ethnic Nepali origin – they were not Bhutanese citizens and they were not Lhotsampas) resented this and revolted against this imposition, thereby getting kicked out of Bhutan to the refugee camps.
About 20% of Bhutan's population currently live in exile because of this Bhutanization policies of the Royal Government followed by land expropriation and persecution.
To preserve the indigenous Buddha's Teachings as their long-guarded culture and tradition, Menjong Chöthün Tshogpa, a charitable organization was established in 2002 by The Supreme Dharma King or Trulku Jigme Chöda Rinpoche 70th Je Khenpo of Bhutan.
The chairman at present is Trizin Tsering Rimpoche who also happens to be the founder of Buddha Dordenma Image Foundation, another charitable organization in Bhutan.
Previously all Bhutanese citizens were required to observe the national dress code, known as Driglam Namzha, while in public during daylight hours.
The rule was enforced more rigorously in some districts (dzongkhag) than others.
Men wear a heavy knee-length robe tied with a belt, called a gho, folded in such a way to form a pocket in front of the stomach.
Women wear colourful blouses over which they fold and clasp a large rectangular cloth called a kira, thereby creating an ankle-length dress.
A short silk jacket, or toego may be worn over the kira.
Everyday gho and kira are cotton or wool, according to the season, patterned in simple checks and stripes in earth tones.
For special occasions and festivals, colourfully patterned silk kira and, more rarely, gho may be worn.
Additional rules of protocol apply when visiting a dzong or a temple, or when appearing before a high-level official.
Male commoners wear a white sash (kabney) from left shoulder to opposite hip.
Local and regional elected officials, government ministers, cabinet members, and the King himself each wear their own colored kabney.
Women wear a narrow embroidered cloth draped over the left shoulder, a rachu.
The dress code has met with some resistance from Lhotshampa, people of Nepali ancestry, living along the Indian border who resent having to wear a cultural dress which is not their own.
Despite living in Bhutan for up to five generations, the Lhotsampas retained their highly distinctive Nepali language, culture, and religion.
They participated in public life and politics, even attaining positions of significant leadership.
The Lhotsampas coexisted peacefully with other ethnic groups in Bhutan until the mid 1980s, when Bhutan’s king and the ruling Druk majority became worried that the growing Lhotsampa population could threaten the majority position and the traditional Buddhist culture of the Druk Bhutanese.
The government therefore initiated a campaign, known as “One country, one people,” or “Bhutanization” to cement Bhutanese national identity.
The policies imposed the Druk dress code, religious practices, and language use on all Bhutanese regardless of prior practices.
These changes negatively impacted the Lhotsampa people, because they did not wear the same traditional dress, practice the same religion, or speak the same language as the northern Bhutanese.
The use of the Nepali language was prohibited in schools, many Lhotsampa teachers were dismissed, and textbooks were burned (Maxym,2010) See https://ethnomed.org/culture/nepali-speaking-bhutanese-lhotsampa/nepali-speaking-bhutanese-lhotsampa-cultural-profile Men and women work together in the fields, and both may own small shops or businesses.
Men take a full part in household management, often cook, and are traditionally the makers and repairers of clothing (but do not weave the fabric).
In the towns, a more "western" pattern of family structure is beginning to emerge, with the husband as breadwinner and the wife as home-maker.
Both genders may be monks, although in practice the number of female monks is relatively small.
Marriages are at the will of either party and divorce is not uncommon.
The marriage ceremony consists of an exchange of white scarves and the sharing of a cup.
Marriages can be officially registered when the couple has lived together for more than six months.
Traditionally the groom moves to the bride's family home (matrilocality), but newlyweds may decide to live with either family depending on which household is most in need of labour.
Except for royal lineages, Bhutanese names do not include a family name.
Instead two traditional auspicious names are chosen at birth by the local lama or by the parents or grandparents of the child.
First names generally give no indication if the person is male or female; in some cases the second name may be helpful in that regard.
As there is a limited constellation of acceptable names to choose from, inevitably many people share the same combination of first and second names.
To resolve the ambiguity an informal nicknaming system comes into play which recognizes where a person is from.
If a certain "Chong Kinley" is from Chozom village in the Paro valley, she is called "Paro Kinley" when she is travelling outside the valley.
In Paro valley itself she is identified by the name of her village, thus "Chong Kinley Chozom".
Surprisingly, multiple children in a small hamlet of a few houses may have exactly the same name, reflecting the inspiration of the local lama.
In this case, she is identified by the name of the house she was born in, thus "Chemsarpo" Kinley.
In the early 1960s, the Third King of Bhutan began the gradual process of introducing modern technology to the medieval kingdom.
The first radio service was broadcast for thirty minutes on Sundays (by what is now the Bhutan Broadcasting Service) beginning in 1973.
The first television broadcasts were initiated in 1999, although a few wealthy families had bought satellite dish as earlier.
Internet service was established in 2000.
In 2002, the first feature-length movie was shot in Bhutan, the acclaimed Travellers and Magicians written and directed by Khyentse Norbu, the esteemed lama and head of the non-sectarian Khyentse lineage.
The movie examines the pull of modernity on village life in Bhutan as coloured by the Buddhist perspective of tanha, or desire.
The staple foods of Bhutan are red rice (like brown rice in texture, but with a nutty taste, the only variety of rice that grows in high altitudes), buckwheat, and increasingly maize.
The diet in the hills also includes chicken, yak meat, dried beef, pork, pork fat, and lamb.
Soups and stews of meat, rice, ferns, lentils, and dried vegetables, spiced with chili peppers and cheese, are a favourite meal during the cold seasons.
Zow shungo is a rice dish mixed with leftover vegetables.
Ema datshi, made very spicy with cheese and chili peppers (similar to chili con queso), might be called the national dish for its ubiquity and the pride that Bhutanese have for it.
Other foods include: jasha maru (a chicken dish), phaksha paa, thukpa, bathup, and fried rice.
Dairy foods, particularly butter and cheese from yaks and cows, are also popular, and indeed almost all milk is turned into butter and cheese.
Popular beverages include: butter tea, black tea, locally brewed ara (rice wine), and beer.
Popular spices include: curry, cardamom, ginger, thingay (Sichuan pepper), garlic, turmeric, and caraway.
When offered food, one says meshu meshu, covering one's mouth with the hands in refusal according to Bhutanese manners, and then gives in on the second or third offer.
Archery is the national sport in Bhutan, and competitions are held regularly in most villages.
It differs from Olympic standards in technical details, such as the placement of the targets and atmosphere.
There are two targets placed over 100 m apart and teams shoot from one end of the field to the other.
Each member of the team shoots two arrows per round.
Traditional Bhutanese Archery is a social event, and competitions are organized between villages, towns, and amateur teams.
There is usually plenty of food and drink complete with singing and dancing.
Attempts to distract an opponent include standing around the target and making fun of the shooter's ability.
Darts (kuru) is an equally popular outdoor team sport, in which heavy wooden darts pointed with a 10&nbsp;cm nail are thrown at a paperback-sized target 10 to 20 m away.
Another traditional sport is digor, which resembles shot put and horseshoe throwing.
Football is the most popular sport in Bhutan.
In 2002, Bhutan's national football team played Montserrat in what was billed as The Other Final; the match took place on the same day Brazil played Germany in the World Cup Final, and at the time Bhutan and Montserrat were the world's two lowest ranked teams.
It was held in Thimphu's Changlimithang Stadium, and Bhutan won 4–0.
Cricket has also gained popularity in Bhutan, particularly since the introduction of television channels from India.
The Bhutan national cricket team is one of the most successful affiliate nations in the region.
The initiated Sikh is asked by the Panj Piare during the Amrit Sanchar ceremony to recite the following five banis every morning as a commitment to the Sikh Gurus and Waheguru.
The Five Banis are: Japji Sahib, Jaap Sahib, Tav-Prasad Savaiye, Chaupai and Anand Sahib —these banis are usually recited daily by all devoted Sikhs in the early morning.
Rehras and Kirtan Sohila are recited in the evening.
The section below list various Banis which are recited by devote Sikhs regularly.
The most important Banis of the Sikhs are: Japji Sahib, forms the beginning of the Guru Granth Sahib, which is regarded as the central religious text and permanent Guru of the Sikhs.
This Bani was compiled by Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism and the first of the Sikh gurus.
Jaap Sahib forms the first part of the Dasam Granth, which is the second-most important Sikh religious text.
Tav-Prasad Savaiye is from the Dasam Granth: Chaupai is from the Dasam Granth Anand Sahib from the Guru Granth Sahib; it was compiled by Guru Amar Das Rehras: from the Guru Granth Sahib Kirtan Sohila: this is the night prayer said by all Sikhs before sleeping.
Its name is Sohila Sahib.
The Roman Catholic Diocese of Pontoise, is a diocese of the Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic church in France.
Erected in 1966, the diocese was split off from the Diocese of Versailles.
the diocese was a suffragan of the Archdiocese of Paris.
The Church Saint-Maclou became Diocese of Pontoise's Cathedral in 1966, when the diocese was created.
Bishop Jean-Yves Riocreux, appointed in 2003 by Pope John Paul II, served until June 15, 2012, when he was appointed Bishop of Basse-Terre by Pope Benedict XVI.
Bishop Riocreux was born on February 24, 1946.
He was ordained a priest on 1974, at Marlhes, France, for the Roman Catholic Diocese of Nouméa in Nouméa, France.
Prior to being Bishop of Pontoise, he was responsible for catechesis in the primatial see of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Paris in Paris, France under Cardinal Jean-Marie Lustiger.
On Thursday, January 31, 2013, Pope Benedict XVI appointed Bishop Stanislas Lalanne of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Coutances, in Coutances, France, to be Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Pontoise.
Bishop Stanislas Lalanne was born on August 3, 1948, in Metz, France, the see city of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Metz.
Bishop Lalanne completed his undergraduate studies in philosophy at the Seminary of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Versailles, in Versailles, France, and then did his theology graduate studies at the Seminary of the Catholic University of Paris at the Catholic University of Paris, in Paris, France, where he obtained a Licentiate in Theology.
He later obtained a Diploma at the Institute of Advanced Studies of National Defence (IHEDN) and a Licentiate in German.
He was ordained a priest on November 8, 1975, for the Roman Catholic Diocese of Versailles.
After presbyteral ordination, he held the following positions: from 1976 to 1980, Chaplain at the Senior High School Hoche and La Bruyère in Versailles; from 1980 to 1985, Head of the Diocesan Chaplains for Public Education; from 1985 to 1993, Director of the French Catholic National Centre Of Religious Education (CNER), and Secretary of the Episcopal Commission of Religious Education; from 1993 to 1994, Pastor of the Parish "Sainte-Pauline" Le Vesinet; from 1994 to 1998, Pastor of the Parish of Elancourt-Maurepas.
In addition, in 1997 he was Director of the Printing Office of the World Youth Day, and in 1997 and 1998, Episcopal Vicar in charge of the Pastoral Care of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Versailles Communications.
Furthermore, from 1998 to 2001, he was Speaker of the French Episcopal Conference, and from 2001 to 2007, Secretary of the same conference.
Then, on April 4, 2007, he was appointed Bishop of Coutances by Pope Benedict.
He was ordained a Bishop on June 3, 2007.
In the French Episcopal Conference, he is part of the "Comité Etudes et projets."
He is the author of various publications, a Consultant of the Pontifical Council for Social Communications, and is the Director of the ecclesiastical CIDSE (Coopération Internationale pour le Développement et la Solidarité).
Willem Bernard "Wim" Drees (born April 20, 1954) is a Dutch philosopher.
He is the editor-in-chief of Zygon, Journal of Religion & Science.
Drees has been the editor or co-editor of twenty books, published more than fifty journal articles and essays, numerous book reviews and articles for the wider public.
He has lectured widely in Europe and the United States.
His eight books include Beyond the Big Bang: Quantum Cosmologies and God (1990), Religion, Science and Naturalism (1996), and Creation: From Nothing until Now (2002).
As of Sept 1, 2009, he is Professor of Philosophy of Religion and Ethics and vice-dean of the Faculty of Humanities of Leiden University in the Netherlands.
Drees was born in the Hague on April 20, 1954, as the third child of five and the only son of Willem Drees jr (1922–1998) and Anna Erica Drees-Gescher (1922–1988).
His paternal grandfather Willem Drees was the highly regarded prime minister of the Netherlands from 1948 until 1958.
He was known as Vadertje Drees (Little Father Drees), and was very popular.
During his office as prime minister, the Netherlands recovered from the Second World War.
His father was also a noted Netherlands politician being the party leader of the Democratic Socialists '70 from 1971 to 1977.
Drees is a past-president of the European Society for the Study of Science And Theology (ESSSAT).
He is currently (2009 and since 2001) the professor of philosophy of religion and ethics at Leiden University (Netherlands)[1].
For the academic year 2008-2009 he was the Witherspoon Fellow for Theology and Science at the Center of Theological Inquiry and affiliate fellow for the Center for the Study of Religion of Princeton University.
His main research focus was on the influence of technology and ecology on religious beliefs and practices.
Drees has three doctorate degrees.
He was trained in theoretical physics (Utrecht, 1971–1977) and theology/philosophy of religion (Amsterdam & Groningen), with doctorates in theology (Groningen 1989) and philosophy (Amsterdam, 1994).
From 1995 until 2001 he held the Nicolette Bruining Chair for Philosophy of Nature and of Technology from a Liberal Protestant Perspective at University of Twente (Netherlands).
In 2001 he served as Executive Director of the All European Academies (ALLEA) - an organization that has for members most of the science and arts academies in Europe.
In 1983 he had a senior Fulbright scholarship, which supported a study leave as fellow of the Center of Theological Inquiry in Princeton, then directed by Daniel W. Hardy.
From September 1987 until August 1988 Drees had a Fulbright scholarship, while doing research at the Center for Theology and the Natural Sciences (Berkeley) and the Chicago Center for Religion and Science, later renamed the Zygon Center for Religion and Science.
In 2000, he was a Dickinson Distinguished Visiting Professor at Dartmouth College.
From 2005 until 2008 he served as dean of the Faculty of Religious Studies at Leiden University.
During his leadership years the Faculty developed an accredited program on Islamic Theology, acquired an endowed chair from the Sultanate of Oman, and raised funds for a chair for the study of Judaism as a living tradition.
Full professors were appointed in New Testament, the Old Testament in the Eastern Christian Traditions, Buddhism, Islam, Judaism, World Christianity, and Comparative Religious Studies.
Drees chairs the subcommittee for the humanities of the Netherlands committee for the assessment of research schools (ECOS) and is a member of the board of NOSTER, the Netherlands research school in religious studies and theology.
Cosmology - Drees earned his first doctorate in physics (cum laude) with Beyond the Big Bang: Quantum Cosmologies and God.
In this he analyzed the philosophical and religious interpretations of the Big Bang theory and quantum cosmology, prospects for complete theories, and speculations about the very long-term future of the Universe.
The doctorate earned him the Prins Bernhard Fund Prize (renamed Keetje Hodson Prize) from the Hollandsche Maatschappij der Wetenschappen and the prize of the Legatum Stolpianum, awarded only once every five years.
Technology - He was Extraordinary (part-time) Professor of Philosophy of Nature and of Technology at Twente University.
Reflections on technology were part of his inaugural address (1995), edited a volume in Dutch on religion and technology (God & Co) and edited a volume on value judgments and the desire to improve nature (Is Nature Ever Evil?).
Technology and ecology are the topic of the Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research (NWO) project led by Drees in a grant program The Future of the Religious Past.
In this grant, Drees and co-workers organized a conference on Religion, Science, and Public Concern; selections of the papers were published as Technology, Trust, and Religion (Drees 2009).
Philosophy of Religion – Drees explains his approach in the following way -  <blockquote> I like to work at the interface between empirical and historical studies of religion, which tend to treat religion in functional terms, and religious self-understanding, which tends to focus on ideas (theology) as claims about the nature of reality, often in competition with scientific understandings of reality.
I am particularly interested in the impact of science and technology on our values and worldviews.
Debates dealing with the relationship between science and religion (e.g.
debates over evolution, the Galileo affair, etc.)
are better understood, in my opinion, as instances of an ongoing competition between various religious and naturalistic views, values and attitudes.
Naturalism - Drees addressed the analysis of cosmology limit questions with the interpretation of the explanatory success of science.
His second Fulbright grant resulted in the book - Religion, Science and Naturalism (1996).
John H. Brooke, historian of science and religion, concluded a review of work of the Oxford theologian Keith Ward and Drees’s book: “Because he is as secure in his epistemology as in his knowledge of theoretical physics, Willem Drees should be read by all who take a scholarly interest in the discourses of ‘science and religion’.
His arguments cannot be compressed into sound-bites, and that is their strength.” The analysis of naturalism as addressed in his Religious Naturalism and Science has remained a major component in Drees’s research.
He has also paid attention in his analysis of naturalism to the understanding of human nature, with two edited volumes on anthropology and non-reductive physicalism in Dutch and one in English (2000).
William A. Rottschaefer argues that Drees’s naturalism is seriously flawed claiming that it is both methodologically and epistemologically naturalistic.
Drees maintains while rejecting both of these that ontological naturalism offers the best account of the natural world.
It also provides for a supernaturalistic understanding of religion and theology.
Although naturalism is often considered to be antithetical to theology and genuine religion, Drees proposes a scientifically informed account of religion, which, he contends, is not only compatible with supernaturalism and theology but provides a better account of both.
Religious Naturalism – As the Vice President for Interdisciplinary Affairs of IRAS, Drees has participated in the formulative discussions of Religious Naturalism and helped organize a conference on Human Meaning in a Technological Culture (2001).
When it comes to his position on this emerging worldview, Drees, says of himself –  <blockquote>Am I a religious naturalist?
Others have used that label on me.
I am not sure I like the label, as it seems to constrain, whereas I want to explore.
I also have some sympathy for the naturalistic theism described above.
But certainly, precisely in the attitude of exploring, I fit the naturalism referenced above.
Or I at least, I hope do.
Even if I am not sure whether I am a religious naturalist, I am most interested in understanding what religious naturalism might mean, may become, and will offer.
Jerome A.
Stone in his 2008 book Religious Naturalism Today: The Rebirth of a Forgotten Alternative cites Drees as one of the leaders of the Religious Naturalism movement along with other member of IRAS – Ursula Goodenough, Karl Peters, Connie Barlow, Michael Cavanaugh and Stone himself.
In his book, Religion and Science in Context, Drees asks how we should think about religion, science, and their relationship in our modern societies.
Some religious people oppose evolution while atheists claim science support their viewpoint.
Others consider science and religious faith to deal with fundamentally different aspects of life.
He examines if religion is indeed a belief or trust in God’s existence, how do we distinguish sense from superstition and what does science have to say on such issues.
He addresses religion and science in multiple contexts; worldly interests: apologetics, authority, and comfort; science, sense, and superstition; religion in the religion and science debates; mystery in an intelligible world; values in a world of facts and meaning in a material world.
Drees considers contemporary discussions of these issues using examples from Christianity and religious naturalism, with reflections on Islam and Tibetan Buddhism.
He proposes that scientific understanding does not answer certain ultimate questions, and thus allows for belief in a creator God, but also for religious naturalism or serious agnosticism.
This text offers an original and self-critical analysis of the religion/science dialogue, its assumptions and functions, and ends with a vision of its possible future.
Books edited or co-edited, professional publications, publications for the general public, book reviews, contributions to books, national (Dutch) refereed journals, international journals, monographs and material accepted (2009) for future publication.
A religious denomination is a subgroup within a religion that operates under a common name, tradition, and identity.
The term describes various Christian denominations (for example, Eastern Orthodox, Roman Catholic, and the many varieties of Protestantism).
The term also describes the four branches of Judaism (Orthodox, Conservative, Reform and Reconstructionist), and describes the two main branches of Islam (Sunni and Shia).
Denominations often form slowly over time for many reasons.
Due to historical accidents of geography, culture and influence between different groups, members of a given religion slowly begin to diverge in their views.
Over time members of a religion may find that they have developed significantly different views on theology, philosophy, religious pluralism, ethics and religious practices and rituals.
Consequently, different denominations may eventually form.
In other cases, denominations form very rapidly, either resulting from a split or schism in an existing denomination, or if people share an experience of spiritual revival or spiritual awakening, and choose to form a new denomination based on that new experience or understanding.
An example within Christianity is the Mennonite and the Church of the Brethren denominations.
Both denominations are similar in their beliefs, yet they are unique because their traditions were influenced by different founders (Menno Simons and Alexander Mack respectively).
Their division is administrative, and there is much communication and interaction between them.
Since its founding, the Mennonite denomination has split into a number of smaller Mennonite denominations, due to geography, social and theological differences.
When Martin Luther protested Catholic practices, he and his followers were persecuted by the Roman Catholic Church as heretics.
This led to the formation of alternative communities of practice that became known as "Lutheran" or "Protestant".
Over time, the various communities who considered themselves Lutheran identified with one another and through various definitions of "Lutheran" practices (five solas, priesthood of all believers) the conglomerations of churches formed concrete denominations based on a common school of thought related to these practices.
Even today, there are major ideological differences between different denominations of Lutherans, although there may be significant overlap between their beliefs.
In Hinduism, the major deity or philosophical belief identifies a denomination, which also typically has distinct cultural and religious practices.
The major denominations include Shaivism, Shaktism, Vaishnavism and Smartism.
Historically, Islam was divided into three major religious denominations well-known as Sunni, Khawarij and Shī‘ah.
Nowadays, Sunnis constitute more than 85% of the overall Muslim population while the Shi'as are slightly more than 12%.
Today, many of the Shia sects are extinct.
The major surviving Imamah-Muslim Sects are Usulism (with nearly more than 10%), Nizari Ismailism (with nearly more than 1%), Alevism (with slightly more than 0.5% but less than 1%).
The other existing groups include Zaydi Shi'a of Yemen whose population is nearly more than 0.5% of the world's Muslim population, Musta’li Ismaili (with nearly 0.1% whose Taiyabi adherents reside in Gujarat state in India and Karachi city in Pakistan.
There are also significant diaspora populations in Europe, North America, the Far East and East Africa), and Ibadis from the Kharijites whose population has diminished to a level below 0.15%.
On the other hand, new Muslim sects like African American Muslims, Ahmadi Muslims (with nearly around 1%), non-denominational Muslims, Quranist Muslims and Wahhabis (with nearly around 0.5% of the world's total Muslim population) were later independently developed.
The term "multi-denominational" may describe (for example) a religious event that includes several religious denominations from sometimes unrelated religious groups.
Many civic events include religious portions led by representatives from several religious denominations to be as inclusive or representational as possible of the expected population or audience.
For example: the Sunday thanksgiving mass at Campamento Esperanza (English: Camp Hope) in Chile, where services were led by both a Roman Catholic priest and by an Evangelical preacher during the Chilean 2010 Copiapó mining accident.
Chaplains - frequently ordained clergy of any religion - are often assigned to secular organizations to provide spiritual support to its members who may belong to any of many different religions or denominations.
Many of these chaplains, particularly those serving with the military or other large secular organizations, are specifically trained to minister to members of many different faiths, even faiths with opposing religious ideology from that of the chaplain's own faith.
Military organizations that do not have large numbers of members from several individual smaller but related denominations will routinely hold multi-denominational religious services, often generically called "Protestant" Sunday services, so minority Protestant denominations are not left out or unserved.
bs:Religijska denominacija da:Kirke (trosretning) eo:Konfesio hy:Կրոնադավանություն nl:Kerkgenootschap
The Pagan Middle Ages is an academic anthology edited by the Belgian historian Ludo J.R. Milis.
Containing eight papers by various Dutch and Belgian historians and archaeologists, it is devoted to the study of how various pre-Christian religious beliefs and practices survived and were absorbed into the new, Christian society in Europe during the Middle Ages.
It was first published by the Institut Historique Belge de Rome in 1991 under the Dutch title of De Heidense Middeleeuwen and subsequently translated into English by Tanis Guest and published by The Boydell Press in 1998.
Ludo Milis' opening chapter, entitled "Introduction: The Pagan Middle Ages - a contradiction in terms?
", , begins by examining the use of "medieval" as a derogatory term that has been used to refer to things that are "old-fashioned, primitive or barbarous."
He contrasts this with the view of the Middle Ages as a time when the Christian Church rose to power in Europe, bringing with it an "idealised order" of morality and obedience to divine authority.
Milis then proceeds to discuss the manner in which contemporary Europeans have projected elements of their own time onto the Middle Ages, for instance noting that modern champions of European unity have praised the Medieval Emperor Charlemagne &ndash; rather than Julius Caesar, Napoleon Bonaparte or Adolf Hitler &ndash; as the "Father of Europe".
The rest of the chapter is devoted to discussing whether historians and archaeologists can talk of a "Pagan Middle Ages", arguing that there was no such thing as a monolithic Christianity in Medieval Europe, but a variety of different religious positions across the continent.
In this context, Milis argues, various "pagan rites, usages, ideas and ways of presenting things" were accepted into Christianity in different parts of Europe.
He criticises the assumption of some earlier scholars that Christianity simply swept away the earlier pagan religions as it spread across Europe, highlighting the comparisons that could be made with the religious beliefs of indigenous peoples in Central and South America, or the black population of the Caribbean, all of which show a great deal of syncreticism between Christianity and older, traditional religion.
Burkina Faso is religiously diverse society with Islam being the dominant religion.
According to recent census (2006) conducted by Government of Burkina Faso, 60.5% of the population adheres to Islam.
The vast majority of Muslims in Burkina Faso are Malikite Sunni, deeply influenced with Sufism.
The Shi'a branch of Islam also has small presence in the country.
A significant number of Sunni Muslims identify with the Tijaniyah Sufi order.
The Government also estimated that 23.2% practices Christianity (19.0% being Roman Catholic, 4.2% being Protestant), 15.3% follow Animism i.e., African Traditional Religion, 0.6% have other religions and 0.4% have none.
Statistics on religion in Burkina Faso are inexact, because Islam and Christianity are often practiced in tandem with African traditional religions.
The Government of Burkina Faso stated in its most recent census (2006) that 60.5% of the population practice Islam, and that the majority of this group belong to the Sunni branch, while a growing minority adheres to the Shi'a branch.
A significant number of Sunni Muslims identify with the Tijaniyah Sufi order.
The Government has also estimated that some 23.2% are Christians (19% being Roman Catholics and 4.2% members of various Protestant denominations), 15.3% follow Traditional indigenous beliefs, 0.6% have other religions, and 0.4% have none (atheism is virtually nonexistent).
This shows the large level of acceptance of the various religions amongst each other.
Even for Muslims and Christians, ancient African Traditional Religion rites are still highly valued.
The Great Mosque of Bobo-Dioulasso was built by people of all faiths working together.
Statistics on religious affiliation are approximate because Syncretism, incorporating traditional indigenous beliefs and practices, is widespread among both Christians and Muslims.
The majority of citizens practice traditional indigenous religious beliefs to varying degrees, and strict adherence to Christian and Muslim beliefs is often nominal.
Almost all citizens are believers and atheism is virtually nonexistent.
One 2015 study estimates some 200,000 Christian believers from a Muslim background in the country, though not all are citizens.
Muslims reside largely around the northern, eastern, and western borders, while Christians live in the center of the country.
People practice traditional indigenous religious beliefs throughout the country, especially in rural communities.
Ouagadougou, the capital, has a mixed Muslim and Christian population; however, Bobo-Dioulasso, the country's second largest city, is mostly Muslim.
Small Syrian and Lebanese immigrant communities reside in the 2 largest cities and are overwhelmingly (more than 90 percent) Christian.
There are more than 60 different ethnicities in the country.
Most ethnic groups are religiously heterogeneous, although the Fula and Dioula communities are majority Muslim.
Christianity and Islam are the two main religions in Cameroon.
Christian churches and Muslim centres of various denominations operate freely throughout Cameroon.
Approximately 70 percent of the population is at least nominally Christian, 20 percent is nominally Muslim and 6 percent practise traditional indigenous religious beliefs, i.e., Animism.
Other religious groups that constitute less than 5 percent of the population include Orthodox Jews, Bahá'ís, and persons who do not associate themselves with any particular religious movement.
The Christian population is divided between Roman Catholics (38.4 percent of the total population), Protestants (26.3 percent), and other Christian denominations (including Jehovah's Witnesses) (4 percent).
The vast majority of the Muslims are Sunni belonging to Maliki school of jurisprudence, with approximately 12% Ahmadiyya and 3% Shia.
Christians and Muslims are found in every region, although Christians are concentrated chiefly in the southern and western provinces.
There is significant internal migration.
Large cities have significant populations of both groups, with churches and mosques often located near each other.
The two Anglophone provinces of the western region largely are Protestant the Becks church of God including others ,and the Francophone provinces of the southern and western regions are largely Catholic.
In the northern provinces, the locally dominant Fulani ( ; ) ethnic group is mostly Muslim, but the overall population is fairly evenly mixed between Muslims, Christians, and animists, each often living in its own community.
The Bamoun ethnic group of the West Province is largely Muslim.
Traditional indigenous religious beliefs are practised in rural areas throughout the country but rarely are practised publicly in cities, in part because many indigenous religious groups are intrinsically local in character.
There are about 40,000 adherents of the Bahá'í Faith in the country.
By 2001 the Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly was registered with the Government of Cameroon as one of the few non-Christian religions.
There is a tiny population of Jews in Cameroon who have established ties with the wider global Jewish community.
A community of approximately 50 people practice some form of Judaism in the country today [1].H Hinduism is the faith practised by some South Asian migrants.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion in Cameroon, and the government generally respects this right in practice.
The country is generally characterized by a high degree of religious tolerance.
Childhood- According to the French Psychologist Jean Piaget, children and adolescents go through 3 stages of religious development.
From one study, in which children were asked about what they thought of religious pictures and Bible stories, Piaget's theories were supported by the children's responses.
1) Pre-operational intuitive religious thought- This thought process can occur in children up to 7 to 8 years of age, it is marked by unsystematic and fragmented thoughts on children.
Children do not understand or comprehend the stories and the evidence of religions.
2) Concrete operational thought- Occurs between 7 to 8 to 13 or 14 years of age, children now focus on particular details of pictures and stories.
3) Formal operational thought- From 14 through the rest of adolescents, abstract religious thoughts start to occur in adolescents.
Early Adulthood- The importance of religion in the lives of people in early adulthood has been going down since the 21st century.
Religious importance in early adulthood is still high in less developed countries compared to developed countries where its on the downfall.
During this age, people start going through identity development which may lead them to start thinking deeper into religious beliefs.
Adulthood- Religion increase in importance in some studies later in adulthood.
70 percent of U.S individuals surveyed said they are religious and consider spirituality a major part of their lives (Brim 1999).
However, studies are also showing that adults are becoming less devoted to one particular religion.
Instead they are focused more on their own spiritual journeys.
Parenting- Parents can have a strong effect on religious development in children and adolescents, as they tend to adopt the religion that is practiced during their upbringing.
The relationship between parents and their children however can change this.
If there is a positive relationship between the parents and child, the child will be more likely to adopt their religious beliefs.
In the case where there is a negative relationship between the parents and child, the child will be more likely to disaffiliate themselves with their parents religious ideas.
Race and Gender- Race and gender play a major role in religious development as well.
Females tend to believe there is a higher power more than males.
They also participate more in organized and personal forms of religion.
Females also are more likely to feel like religion is a major factor in their lives.
In regards to race, Latinos and African Americans show higher rates of participation in religion than White Americans.
Religious importance also varies from country to country.
In a study of emerging adults, Japanese said that religion had a 0 percent importance in their lives compared to a high of 93 percent saying it has a very high importance in their lives in Nigeria.
40 percent of emerging adults in Sweden believe in God compared to a high of 100 percent belief in God in Pakistan.
Religious satire is a form of satire targeted at religious beliefs.
From the earliest times, at least since the plays of Aristophanes, religion has been one of the three primary topics of literary satire, along with politics and sex.
Satire which targets the clergy is a type of political satire, while religious satire is that which targets religious beliefs.
Religious satire is also sometimes called philosophical satire.
Religious satire can be the result of agnosticism or atheism, but it can also have its roots in belief itself.
According to religious theorist Robert Kantra, in religious satire, man attempts to violate the divine—it is an effort to play God, in whole or in part—whether under the banner of religion or of humanity.
Religious satire surfaced during the Renaissance, with works by Chaucer, Erasmus and Durer.
Religious satire has been criticised by those who feel that sincerely held religious views should not be subject to ridicule.
In some cases religious satire has been censored - for example, Molière's play Tartuffe was banned in 1664.
The film Life of Brian was initially banned in Ireland, Norway, some states of the USA, and some towns and councils of the United Kingdom.
In an interesting case of life mirroring art, activist groups who protested the film during its release bore striking similarities to some bands of religious zealots within the film itself.
Like much religious satire, the intent of the film has been misinterpreted and distorted by protesters.
According to the Pythons, Life of Brian is not a critique of religion so much as an indictment of the hysteria and bureaucratic excess that often surrounds it.
The issue of freedom of speech was hotly debated by the UK Parliament during the passing of the Religious Hatred Bill in January 2006.
Critics of the original version of the Bill (such as comedian Rowan Atkinson) feared that satirists could be prosecuted, but an amendment by the House of Lords making it clear that this was not the case was passed - by just one vote.
In 2006, Rachel Bevilacqua, a member of the Church of the SubGenius, known as Rev.
Magdalen in the SubGenius hierarchy, lost custody and contact with her son after a district court judge took offense at her participation in the Church's X-Day festival.
Richard Dawkins frequently points out that there is no reason to exclude religion from objective studying like any other social phenomena.
The National High School Mock Trial Championship is an American nationwide competition of high school mock trial teams.
The competition debuted in 1984 in Des Moines, Iowa, with teams representing Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska and Wisconsin.
Georgia has been the most successful state in the competition, winning the title four separate times.
Iowa has won three times.
Tennessee, California, New Jersey, South Carolina, Indiana, New Mexico, Arizona, and Washington have all won twice.
Past winners and runners-up of the competition include the following schools: The Torah Academy of Bergen County from Teaneck, New Jersey had won its state's 2005 competition, but faced difficulties in its ultimately successful effort to gain accommodations to participate in the National High School Mock Trial Championship in Charlotte, North Carolina without being required to compete during the Jewish Sabbath.
The American Mock Trial Invitational was created in 2006 by the New Jersey State Bar Foundation and the North Carolina Academy of Trial Lawyers as an alternative competition to address concerns of religious commitments by competing school teams.
Maimonides School of Brookline, Massachusetts won the 2009 Massachusetts state championship and desired to participate in the national championship in Atlanta, Georgia.
Due to religious dietary restrictions and Shabbat observance the school asked for accommodation in order to participate without violating their religious beliefs.
The school asked for two trials to be changed from Saturday to Thursday or Friday in order to avoid violating Shabbat.
In response the school obtained attorney Nathan Lewin to represent the school.
Lewin filed a complaint with the US Department of Justice alleging religious discrimination and a violation of civil rights.
Attorney Elizabeth Price resigned from the Georgia State Bar in protest over the National Board refusing to grant the requests for accommodation.
The Anti-Defamation League sent a letter of protest to the National Board complaining against the lack of reasonable accommodation, asking the National Board not to punish children for their religious beliefs.
The United States Congress condemned the National Board for failing to provide for these accommodations.
On May 7, 2009, Fulton County Superior Court Chief Judge Doris Downs ruled that unless the competition would accommodate the Orthodox Jewish students, then the courthouse would not be allowed to be used for the competition.
Latter Day Saint martyrs are persons who belonged to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) or another church within the Latter Day Saint movement who were killed or otherwise persecuted to the point of premature death on account of their religious beliefs or while performing their religious duties.
Although the term "martyr" is not frequently used in Latter-day Saint terminology, Latter Day Saints recognize a number of prophets, apostles, and other religious persons as recorded in the Bible, including both the Old Testament and New Testament, and Book of Mormon as martyrs within the same religious tradition (albeit at an earlier time) to which they subscribe.
For Latter Day Saints, the most notable martyr is Jesus Christ.
Other scriptural examples include Abel ("the first martyr"), John the Baptist, James, the brother of John, Stephen whose stoning is recorded in the Book of Acts, Abinadi, women and children of Ammonihah, etc.
Latter Day Saints also acknowledge as "Early-day Saint" martyrs those early Christians who were killed for their faith prior to or as a result of the Great Apostasy.
The most notable post-Biblical Latter Day Saint martyrs are Joseph Smith, Jr. and his brother, Hyrum Smith.
Individuals who die "in the Lord's service" are believed to be rewarded with eternal life: "And whoso layeth down his life in my cause, for my name’s sake, shall find it again, even life eternal."
Joseph F. Smith, LDS Church president, declared: "I beheld that the faithful elders of this dispensation, when they depart from mortal life, continue their labors in the preaching of the gospel ... in the great world of the spirits."
In 1989, following the death of two missionaries in Bolivia, LDS Church apostle L. Tom Perry noted that from 1831 until 1989, "only seventeen LDS missionaries [were] killed by assassins."
Also at that time, apostle M. Russell Ballard "indicated that of the 447,969 missionaries who have served since the days of Joseph Smith, only 525—about one-tenth of 1 percent—have lost their lives through accident, illness, or other causes while serving.
'When you contemplate that number,' he said, 'it appears that the safest place to be in the whole world is on a full-time mission.'"
Missionaries who died from illness or accident are not listed.
However, depending on the circumstances of their death, they could be deemed "martyrs" for having died while in religious service.
Many Mormon pioneers and other early church members who suffered privation and early death on account of their religious beliefs would likely qualify as "martyrs."
However, they are too numerous to list here.
This list also does not include early Mormon settlers who were killed in encounters with Native Americans during the Mormon settlement of the American West.
Central Alberta Dairy Pool v Alberta (Human Rights Commission), [1990] 2 S.C.R.
489, is a leading Human Rights decision of the Supreme Court of Canada.
The Court expanded on the concept of accommodation up to undue hardship first established in Ontario Human Rights Commission and O'Malley v. Simpsons-Sears Ltd. (1985) and provided a set of factors to consider when evaluating undue hardship.
Jim Christie was an employee at an Albertan Dairy farm since 1980.
In 1983 he joined the Worldwide Church of God and as part of his observance of the faith he had to take a number of days off work.
The Dairy farm was initially accommodating, but when he tried to take off a Monday, which was the busiest day of the week, they refused to let him off and told him that if he did not show up to work he would be fired.
Christie did not show up on Monday and, when he returned from work on Tuesday, his job was filled with a new employee.
Christie submitted a complaint under the Individual's Rights Protection Act for dismissal based on religious grounds.
The Board of Inquiry ordered that Christie be compensated for lost wages.
On appeal, the Court held that attendance on Mondays was a bona fide occupational requirement and therefore a valid ground for dismissal.
The issues before the Supreme Court were whether the Dairy farm could justify the dismissal on the basis that the requirement that Christie work on Mondays is a bona fide occupational requirement under section 7(3) of the Act and, if not, whether it still open to the respondent to demonstrate that it had accommodated the complainant's religious beliefs up to the point of undue hardship and if so, whether the Dairy farm in fact reasonably accommodate the complainant's religious beliefs.
Justice Wilson, writing for the majority, held that there was no bona fide occupational requirement for Monday attendance and that the dairy farm did not accommodate to the point of undue hardship.
Wilson described the situation of one of adverse effect discrimination, which she defines as "a rule that is neutral on its face but has an adverse effect on certain members of the group to whom it applies."
Monday attendance, she found, was an isolated incident and there was no evidence that it would be a recurring event.
Thus, it was not a bona fide occupational requirement.
She then considered whether the dairy farm accommodated Christie to the point of undue hardship.
She observed that it was not necessary to provide a comprehensive definition of undue hardship and instead gave a list of factors:
The Center for Arizona Policy (CAP) is a nonprofit conservative lobbying group based in Arizona.
The organization advocates for the passage of socially conservative policies in the state.
It also produces voter guides to encourage its supporters to elect conservative lawmakers.
Over 100 bills supported by CAP have been signed into law in Arizona.
The Center works on issues related to three main categories: Life, Marriage & Family, and Religious Liberty.
CAP employees co-wrote Arizona's controversial SB 1062, which would have shielded business owners and employees from lawsuits if they refused service to anyone based on sincerely held religious beliefs.
The bill was vetoed by governor Jan Brewer.
The Center for Arizona Policy was founded by Len Munsil in 1995; he served as Founding President and General Counsel until 2005.
The current President is Cathi Herrod, who joined the organization as legal counsel in 1997.
CAP receives some of its funding from the National Christian Charitable Foundation, an organization largely funded with money from the Hobby Lobby craft store company.
In 2011 the Foundation awarded $236,250 of the $1.6 million CAP received in grant revenue that year.
CAP has supported and lobbied for over 100 bills that have been signed into law in Arizona.
In 2012 alone, 13 CAP-supported bills passed, including a law banning abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy.
The Center for Arizona Policy, along with the Alliance Defending Freedom, helped write Arizona Senate Bill 1062, a controversial bill that, if signed into law, would have allowed business owners and employees to refuse to serve anyone based on sincerely held religious beliefs.
Supporters of the bill claimed it was meant to protect the religious freedoms of Arizonans, while opponents pointed out that it was intended to allow discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people.
Top aides for Arizona Governor Jan Brewer worked closely with CAP in crafting the language of the bill, but Brewer vetoed it on February 26, 2014, a few days after it passed the state Senate and House.
CAP and its president Cathi Herrod received a great deal of media attention during the debate over the bill, with several stories highlighting the amount of influence the organization has in Arizona politics.
Black Robe, first published in 1985, is a historical novel by Brian Moore set in New France in the 17th century.
The novel follows Father Laforgue, a French Jesuit priest traveling up river to repopulate the mission to the Huron Indians.
(The First Nations peoples called the priests "Black Robes".)
It chronicles his interactions with the " " tribes of Algonkian (friendly) and Iroquois (unfriendly), as well as his inner struggles of faith, as he travels upriver to bring salvation to the Hurons.
As he is traveling with the Huron Indians, he realizes how difficult it will be to change their minds about their current faith.
At First the Huron Indians create an agreement with the French people to allow "Black Robe" and his assistant Daniel to travel with them for a few weeks.
As "Black Robe" and Daniel are trying to bring salvation to the Hurons they get labeled as demons and are outcast from the group.
Moore juxtaposes the "superstitious" religious beliefs of the Native people with the Christian religious beliefs of Father Laforgue, which the reader can see very nearly mirror each other.
The book was adapted into the 1991 film of the same title directed by Bruce Beresford, for which Moore wrote the screenplay.
Writing in The New York Times, novelist James Carroll described Black Robe as "an extraordinary novel... in which Brian Moore has brought vividly to life a radically different world and populated it with men and women wholly unlike us.
His novel's achievement, however, is that, through the course of its shocking narrative... we recognize its fierce, awful world as the one we live in.
We put Mr. Moore's novel down and look at ourselves and our places differently".
Anstiss Drake in the Chicago Tribune praises the novel's "economy of style, vivid characterizations, spellbinding story and a master's touch...
He accomplishes a portrait of native tribespeople that is acute and unsentimental.
In Laforgue, Moore gives us a type seldom seen nowadays; he has saintly purity and heroism.
Laforgue suffers in both mind and spirit on his quest; for his God he walks into a wilderness from which he will never return".
In Iran, the Burnt Generation (Persian: Nasl-e Sokhte) is the generation born between 1972 to 1990, having experienced the 1979 revolution, Iran—Iraq war, and political or social consequences of these as children and young adults.
This generation resonates with Generation X in the Western world.
They were born at a time when the middle class had the majority, higher education was extremely valued and hard work would promise a bright future.
The Burnt Generation shaped their future dreams based on their parents’ values and lifestyle.
These values described success, convenience and social acceptance as simply achievable goals through hard work and right education.
Their parents, a Baby Boomer-like generation, had rebuilt the country after World War II, established public education and women’s rights, nationalized the oil industry, and enhanced the public health system.
Although there was a growing dissatisfaction with the government and Shah’s approach to a variety of political and social issues, the public's assumption was that those issues would be resolved through a democratic system.
After the Shah’s exile in the 1979 revolution, the clash between various political groups and new government created a suspicious environment that deeply affected the beliefs and values of the Burnt Generation.
They are marked by lack of optimism for the future, nihilism, cynicism, skepticism, political apathy, alienation and distrust in traditional values and institutions which describe the similarities between Gen X and the Burnt Generation.
Another important event that influenced this generation was shutting down colleges and universities for several years.
After reopening, every applicant had to pass an interview with the government-approved committees and women were only allowed to apply for certain limited majors.
At that time, many of Burnt Generation, ranged between 13 and 25 years old, were fighting in the Iran-Iraq War, which lasted from 1980 to 1988 with a million casualties on both sides.
As a result of growing up in that environment, they either have strong religious beliefs or are completely distrustful of religion and God.
Some believe in God but disconnect themselves from any religious beliefs or groups.
Their most common values include loyalty to family and friends, compassion, and high work ethics.
The uncertainties of their future, either for those who lived in Iran or elsewhere, leave a deep sense of insecurity in the Burnt Generation.
The U.S. census has never asked Americans directly about their religion or religious beliefs, but it did compile statistics from each denomination starting in 1850.
Finke and Starke conducted a statistical analysis of the official census data after 1850, and Atlas for 1776, to estimate the number of Americans who were adherents to a specific denomination.
In 1776 their estimate is 17%.
In the late 19th century, 1850-1890, the rate increased from 34% to 45%.
From 1906 to 1952, the rate grew from 51% to 59%.
A partial report can be found here, holding data collected by the Pew Research Center from 1972 up to 2012: The Decline of Institutional Religion Faith Angle Forum South Beach, Florida March 18, 2013 Luis Lugo Pew Research Center Washington, D.C.
According to the Pew Research Center the percentage of Protestants in the United States has decreased from over two-thirds in 1948 to less than half by 2012 with 48% of Americans identifying as Protestant.
The data here comes from Gallup, which has polled Americans annually about their denominational preferences since 1948.
Gallup did not ask whether a person was a formal member of the denomination.
Blank means that there is no data available for a given year.
All of the percentages here are rounded, so 0% could actually mean 0.01% to 0.49%.
This decline in Protestant immigration has corresponded to the relaxation of immigration restrictions pertaining to mostly non-Protestant countries.
The percentage of Catholics in the United States increased from 1948 all the way to the 1980s, but then began declining again.
The percentage of Jews in the United States has decreased from 4% to 2% during this same time period.
There has been very little Jewish immigration to the U.S. after 1948 in comparison to previous years.
The number of people with other religions was almost nonexistent in 1948, but rose to 5% by 2011, partially due to large immigration from non-Christian countries.
The percentage of non-religious people (atheists, agnostics, and irreligious) people in the U.S. has drastically increased from 2% to 13%.
The number of Americans unsure about their religion and religious beliefs stayed roughly the same over the years, always hovering at 0% to 4%.
Over the last 19 years, some of the more traditional Protestant denominations/branches experienced a large decline as a percentage of the total American population.
These include Southern Baptists, Methodists, Presbyterians, Episcopalians, and Other Protestants.
The only Protestant category that significantly increased its percentage share over the last 19 years is non-denominational Protestanism.
Edlapalli is a village in Tsundur Mandal, Guntur district, Andhra Pradesh, India.
The heart of India lies in its villages!!!!
The Indian ‘rural cosmopolitan’ makes India more interesting and enriching.
Edlapalli is simply a beautiful blend of tradition and modernity.
Our village is surrounded with beautiful agricultural landscapes all around.
Most of the inhabitants are farmers, known for their oxen and lemons which are grown for export.
Surrounding Villages are Valiveru and Dundipalem.
Most of the people are educated and Famous for religious practices and agricultural activities.
People are really close to each other and provide a sense of unity, perhaps equally important, fellow villagers share knowledge of their common origin in a locale and of each other's secrets, often going back generations.
Family bonding, social responsibilities, religious practices The “Young” generation tasting the success in various fields across the Globe!!!
This village in south India is a perfect example for a village and village atmosphere with beautiful agricultural fields, different varieties of trees and also a great home for reptiles.
It is a place where the Hindu culture and traditions are being imbibed to the core.
The villagers there are mostly agriculturalists.
Some are into growing food crops and some are into businesses.
It should not be surprising that the people from Edlapalli have migrated to different countries and rendering different services and enjoying the toasts of success.
Gallo-Roman religion was a fusion of the traditional religious practices of the Gauls, who were originally Celtic speakers, and the Roman and Hellenistic religions introduced to the region under Roman Imperial rule.
It was the result of selective acculturation.
In some cases, Gaulish deity names were used as epithets for Roman deities, as with Lenus Mars or Jupiter Poeninus.
In other cases, Roman gods were given Gaulish female partners – for example, Mercury was paired with Rosmerta and Sirona was partnered with Apollo.
In at least one case – that of the equine goddess Epona – a native Celtic goddess was also adopted by Romans.
The Jupiter Column was a distinctive type of religious monument from Roman Gaul and the Germanies, combining an equestrian Jupiter overcoming a giant (or sometimes Jupiter enthroned) with panels depicting many other deities.
Eastern mystery religions penetrated Gaul early on.
These included the cults of Orpheus, Mithras, Cybele, and Isis.
The imperial cult, centred primarily on the numen of Augustus, came to play a prominent role in the public religion of Gaul, most dramatically at the Sanctuary of the Three Gauls at Lugdunum.
Roman religious practices such as offerings of incense and animal sacrifice, dedicatory inscriptions, and naturalistic statuary depicting deities in anthropomorphic form were combined with specific Gaulish practices such as circumambulation around a temple.
This gave rise to a characteristic Gallo-Roman fanum, identifiable in archaeology from its concentric shape.
The history of the Jews in Nigeria is a complex subject.
The historic presence of Judaism in Nigeria is a cause of debate, as there are several Judaic-oriented religious groups among the largest ethnic groups in the largely populated nation.
The groups claim that their religious practices result either from hundreds of years of continuous practice of Judaic or Judaic-like customs by their ethnic groups, customs inherited from the Jews of Bilad el-Sudan or by a more-recent departure from European Christianity to modern Judaism.
Either way, Judaism in Nigeria has developed demographically with the interest of Jewish peoples in other countries, especially Israel and the United States.
The Igbo Jews of Nigeria are one of the components of the Igbo ethnic group.
Certain Nigerian communities with Judaic practices have been receiving help from individual Israelis and American Jews who work in Nigeria, out-reach organizations like Kulanu, and African-American Jewish communities in America.
Jews from outside Nigeria founded two synagogues in Nigeria, which are attended and maintained by Igbos.
Because no formal census has been taken in the region, the number of Igbos in Nigeria who identify as either Israelites or Jews is not known.
There are currently 26 synagogues of various sizes.
An estimated 30,000 Igbos were practicing some form of Judaism in 2008.
The Annang, Efik, and Ibibio people of Akwa Ibom and Cross River States of Nigeria have had ancient religious practices that strongly resembled some of the Jewish Torah.
These include their traditional sacrifice of animals (rituals) by the presiding male of each village, or of a group of villages, for purification, especially during times of sickness.
They have active synagogues with majority of the synagogues in the eastern part of the country a vibrant one in Abuja supported and provided with lots of Jewish materials by different Rabbis.
There are also key Synagogues in Port Harcourt and Lagos.
The Graduate Theological Union (GTU) is a consortium of eight independent American theological schools and eleven centers and affiliates.
Seven of the theological schools are located in Berkeley, California.
The GTU was founded in 1962 and is affiliated with the University of California, Berkeley, with students from both institutions enjoying privileges accorded to their own students.
Additionally, some of the GTU consortial schools are part of other California universities such as Santa Clara University (Jesuit School of Theology) and California Lutheran University (Pacific Lutheran Theological Seminary).
Most of the GTU consortial schools are located in Berkeley around the University of California, Berkeley campus, with the majority north of the campus in a neighborhood known as "Holy Hill."
Many of the GTU's constituent seminaries were established at various locations throughout the Bay Area in the early 20th or even the late 19th centuries.
Due to the foundation of the University of California, several of them relocated to Berkeley and established cooperative relationships with the University.
In the wake of the formation of the World Council of Churches and the Second Vatican Council, Bay Area seminaries began negotiations to form a cooperative degree program.
In 1962, agreement between the Berkeley Baptist Divinity School (now the American Baptist Seminary of the West), Church Divinity School of the Pacific, Pacific Lutheran Theological Seminary and San Francisco Theological Seminary enabled for the incorporation of the Graduate Theological Union in 1962.
In 1964, the Pacific School of Religion, St. Albert's College (now the Dominican School of Philosophy and Theology and Starr King School for the Ministry joined the GTU consortium.
In 1966, Alma College relocated to Berkeley and was renamed the Jesuit School of Theology at Berkeley.
In 1968, the Franciscan School of Theology moved to Berkeley from Santa Barbara and joined the GTU consortium, although in 2013 it merged with the University of San Diego, leaving the consortium and relocating to Oceanside, California .
By 1971, the GTU was fully accredited by the Association of Theological Schools.
In 1969, the GTU common library was established and the individual libraries of the seminaries were merged into one collection.
In the 1970s, construction began on a Louis I. Kahn-designed building to house the GTU library.
The main library building was completed in 1987 and was named the Flora Lamson Hewlett Library in honor of the Hewlett Foundation.
The Dean of the GTU is the chief academic officer of the institution.
The dean also chairs the GTU's Council of Deans, composed of the academic deans of consortial member schools.
Traditionally, the GTU's dean holds the John Dillenberger Professorship in their general field of specialization.
The 5th Dean of the GTU, Margaret Miles, was John Dillenberger Professor of Historical Theology while the 6th and current dean, Arthur Holder, is John Dillenberger Professor of Christian Spirituality.
The GTU offers Doctor of Philosophy cooperatively with the University of California at Berkeley and Doctor of Theology and Master of Arts programs in cooperation with its member seminaries.
GTU consortial seminaries variously offer M.Th., M.Div, Doctor of Ministry, S.T.B., S.T.L., and S.T.D.
degrees.
Ph.D. students are encouraged not only to take advantage of the academic resources available to them at the University of California at Berkeley, but are required to include a non-GTU scholar in their exams or dissertation committees.
As such, students have collaborated with UC-B faculty members in the anthropology, critical theory, ethnic studies, history, philosophy, sociology, etc.
departments.
There are four doctoral departments, with more than 30 concentrations, encompassing the breadth of religious and theological scholarship at the GTU.
The Sacred Texts and Interpretation department focuses on Hebrew Bible, New Testament, Rabbinic Literature, and studies in the sacred texts of Islamic and Hindu traditions.
Historical and Cultural Studies of Religions encompasses studies in history of religions, art and religion, interreligious studies, and sociology of religion.
Theology and Ethics focuses on theological and ethical reflections in the Christian, Jewish, Islamic, and Hindu traditions.
Other concentrations include comparative theology/ethics, philosophical theology, theology and science, and aesthetics.
Religion and Practice focuses on homiletics, liturgical studies, missiology, practical theology, and religious education.
The GTU also offers certificates in specialized studies including the following: All degree seeking students at GTU may take any classes offered at the University of California, Berkeley, and have access and borrowing privileges at the University of California, Berkeley and Stanford University libraries.
Only Ph.D. students have unrestricted access to registering for UCB classes (subject to approval of course instructors); Th.D.
and M.A.
students can only take a maximum of 1 class per semester.
Ph.D. students taking courses at UCB are able to obtain Cal 1 Cards, which can be loaded with funds for photocopying or for other purposes.
Cross-registration opportunities are also available for GTU students at Dominican University of California, Holy Names University, and Mills College.
Additionally, students can participate in international exchange programs with the University of Heidelberg, Catholic University of Eichstatt-Ingolstadt, the Indonesian Consortium for Religious Studies, Ryukoku University in Japan, and the Dharma Drum University in Taiwan.
The GTU houses its own in-house academic journal, the Berkeley Journal of Religion and Theology.
The journal is managed by current doctoral students, although peer-reviewers include members of the consortial doctoral faculty.
It publishes many of the lectures occurring throughout the year around the consortium, as well as several original articles and book reviews.
Occasionally, special issues are commissioned to celebrate important milestones in the life of the GTU.
The journal welcomes submissions from scholars from and outside of the GTU, and publishes one regular issue a year.
All issues are available free online.
GTU faculty, alumni, and students have been active in the American Academy of Religion by directing or leading sections, groups, and in other capacities.
Several members of the GTU community have served as presidents of the Academy.
GTU faculty and alumni have been recipients of the prestigious Henry Luce Fellowship, which is supported by the Henry Luce Foundation and administered by the Association of Theological Schools.
In the following list, institutions listed indicate the affiliation of the recipient at the time of award.
The Graduate Theological Union maintains the Flora Lamson Hewlett Library, the largest theological library west of the Rockies, and one of the largest theological libraries in the world, with around 509,000 volumes.
It has a branch in San Anselmo, housed in the former library of the San Francisco Theological Seminary.
Its material acquisitions are coordinated with the University of California Berkeley and Stanford University libraries.
Borrowing privileges are available for all three institutions.
Furthermore, GTU students are privy to borrowing from the University of Texas, Austin libraries as part of the RCLP agreement between University of California, Berkeley, Stanford University, and UT-Austin.
In addition, GTU and UCB students can access the rare and special collections in both institutions' libraries.
Altogether, GTU students have ready access to more than 20 million volumes of resources, more than any theological institution in the world.
The National Research Council (NRC) has released a comprehensive assessment of doctoral programs in the United States.
In one independent compilation based on the NRC’s "regression-based" rankings, the GTU appears at No.
22 overall.
The GTU's 7th and current president is Riess W. Potterveld, who previously was president at the Pacific School of Religion and Lancaster Theological Seminary.
The GTU's 6th and current dean is Arthur Holder, who previously served as Academic Dean at the Church Divinity School of the Pacific.
One of his predecessors was Judith Berling, who is professor of Chinese religions at the GTU and was president of the American Academy of Religion in 1990.
The GTU draws its consortial faculty from its constituent seminaries and centers.
Although faculty members are employed at their respective seminaries and centers, they commit to supervising doctoral and masters students, as well as occasionally teaching GTU-wide courses.
Thus, the GTU arguably possesses the largest faculty in religious and theological studies in the world, with more than 50 members.
Since 1976, GTU faculty annually nominates a consortial faculty member that embodies the scholarly standards, teaching excellence, and interdisciplinary and ecumenical ethos, all of which are represented in the GTU.
Nominations are first considered by the Council of Deans, comprising the academic deans of all GTU seminaries.
The Sarlo Excellence in Teaching Award was funded by a gift from the Sarlo Foundation and is given annually to a member of the core doctoral faculty whose teaching and mentoring of doctoral students embodies the values of interreligious dialogue and interdisciplinary approach to teaching.
A monetary award is accompanied with this award, along with an announcement at the GTU Commencement.
Sponsored by the Friends of the GTU's Library, the annual lecture invites a speaker connected with a "sacred text" in the broadest sense of the term.
Speakers are invited to reflect on the concept in a public lecture held every spring.
Irving Hexham (born 1943) is a Canadian academic and writer who has published twenty-three books and numerous articles, chapters, and book reviews in respected academic journals.
Currently, he is Professor of Religious Studies at the University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada, married to Dr. Karla Poewe who is Professor Emeritus of Anthropology at the University of Calgary, and the father of two children.
He holds dual British and Canadian citizenship.
Hexham was born in Whitehaven, Cumberland, England.
After leaving school at the age of fifteen he spent six years (1958–1964) as an apprentice gas fitter with the North Western Gas Board, and obtained his City and Guilds and advanced diplomas in Gas Technology.
After the completion of his apprenticeship he was offered a management position with the Gas Board.
During his industrial career he also served as a union representative.
Hexham qualified for university matriculation by correspondence study and entered the University of Lancaster in 1967 where he majored in Religious Studies with minors in History and Philosophy.
He graduated with a B.A.
(Hons) in 1970.
He then proceeded to post-graduate studies, obtaining his MA "with commendation" in religious studies and theology from the Bristol University in 1972.
His MA was based on anthropological methods and theories and involved a short dissertation on Glastonbury.
He obtained a PhD in History from the University of Bristol in 1975.
His PhD thesis was on Afrikaner Calvinism and the origins of apartheid as an ideology.
In the course of his studies he lived in the Republic of South Africa and studied the languages of German and Afrikaans.
His MA supervisor was F.B.
Welbourn; his PhD supervisor was Kenneth Ingham.
When he was in South Africa Elaine Botha at Potchefstroom University was appointed his local supervisor by the University of Bristol.
Hexham has held a number of posts in various tertiary institutions of higher learning.
He was an assistant professor at Bishop Lonsdale College, University of Derby, England from 1974–1977.
He also served as a course tutor in the Open University at Derby (1975–77).
Hexham then relocated to Canada and assumed the post of assistant professor at Regent College, Vancouver (1977–80).
He became an assistant professor in religious studies at the University of Manitoba, Winnipeg (1980–84), and then an assistant professor in religious studies at the University of Calgary (1984–88).
He was promoted to the rank of associate professor at Calgary (1988–92), and in 1992 assumed the post of Full Professor in religious studies.
Hexham is a Fellow of both the Royal Anthropological Institute, and the Royal Historical Society has been a member of various professional organizations including the Society for the Scientific Study of Religion, American Academy of Religion, Association for the Sociology of Religion, South African Institute of Race Relations, South African Society for Mission Studies, and the Berliner Gesellschaft fuer Missionsgeschichte of which he was a founding member with Ulrich van der Heyden.
Recently he was elected a Fellow of the Centre for Military and Strategic Studies at the University of Calgary.
Hexham has lectured in undergraduate and post-graduate programs covering topics such as cults, sects and new religious movements, history of religion, sociology of religion, African history and religions, religion and society in South Africa, millenarian movements, theology and politics, Christianity and culture, missions and society, religion and ethics, fundamentalism and charismatic religion, methods in the study of religion, and the philosophy of religion.
His academic interests are listed as Political Religions; Nationalism and Religion; Afrikaner Nationalism; National Socialism; New Religious Movements, World Religions in Modern Society; World Christianity and Christian Missions, African Initiated/Independent Churches; Modern Religious Thought; while his research interests are said to be Ancestral neo-Paganism, the New Right, and political religions in Germany.
He served as a contributing editor to the Journal of Theology for Southern Africa (1981–93), and is on the Editorial Board of Studies in Religion.
Hexham has written or co-edited a number of works treating various facets of religion in South Africa including African independent churches, Afrikaner Calvinism, and Zulu religion.
He has compiled reference works such as the Concise Dictionary of Religion and Pocket Dictionary of New Religious Movements.
He has co-written two analytic works on the phenomenon of new religions and cults, and co-edited a pioneering work on the development of Christian contextual missions and new religious movements.
Currently, as can be seen from his recent publications, Hexham is working on issues related to Germany.
Among his graduate students are Dr. Douglas Cowan of the University of Waterloo, Professor Mark Mullins of Sophia University in Tokyo, and Kurt Widmar of the University of Lethbridge.
Hexham began his academic research with a study of New Age thought in Glastonbury.
He continued his research with a study of the origins of the ideology of Apartheid.
Later he pioneered the study of the amaNazareta by publishing the complete scriptures of this important African Independent Church which in the past was often considered pagan.
Alongside his South African studies Hexham also published extensively on New Religious Movements, Theology, the History of Christian Missions, and, more recently National Socialism.
His contributions to scholarship were recognized by the award of an academic Festschrift on 23 May 2008 in the Faculty of Theology at the Humboldt University in Berlin.
Section 2 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms is the section of the Constitution of Canada that lists what the Charter calls "fundamental freedoms" theoretically applying to everyone in Canada, regardless of whether they are a Canadian citizen, or an individual or corporation.
These freedoms can be held against actions of all levels of government and are enforceable by the courts.
The fundamental freedoms are freedom of expression, freedom of religion, freedom of thought, freedom of belief, freedom of peaceful assembly, and freedom of association.
Section 1 of the Charter permits Parliament or the provincial legislatures to enact laws that place certain kinds of limited restrictions on the freedoms listed under section 2.
Additionally, these freedoms can be temporarily invalidated by the notwithstanding clause of the Charter.
As a part of the Charter and of the larger Constitution Act, 1982, section 2 took legal effect on April 17, 1982.
Many of its rights, however, have roots in Canada in the 1960 Canadian Bill of Rights (although this law was of limited effectiveness), and in traditions under a theorized Implied Bill of Rights.
Many of the freedoms, such as freedom of expression, have also been at the centre of federalism disputes.
Under the heading of "Fundamental Freedoms" the section states: According to Beverley McLachlin, freedom of religion in Canada may have originated as early as 1759, when French Canadian Roman Catholics were allowed rights of worship by their British conquerors; this was later reconfirmed in 1774 in the Quebec Act.
Later the Constitution Act, 1867 provided for denominational school rights (these are reaffirmed by section 29 of the Charter).
Discussions of church-state relations also took place in the Guibord case of 1874.
In 1955, the Supreme Court ruled in Chaput v. Romain, regarding Jehovah's Witnesses, that different religions have rights, based upon tradition and the rule of law (at the time no statutes formed the basis for this argument).
Religious freedom was later included in the Canadian Bill of Rights.
Its effectiveness was limited, however.
When Sunday closing laws compelling respect for the Christian Sabbath were challenged in R. v. Robertson and Rosetanni (1963), Justice Ritchie of the Supreme Court found that non-Christians merely lost money when denied rights to work on Sunday and were otherwise free to believe in and observe their own religions.
Freedom of religion under section 2(a) of the Charter was first seriously considered by the Supreme Court in the 1985 case R. v. Big M Drug Mart.
In that case, Chief Justice Brian Dickson wrote that this freedom at least includes freedom of religious speech, including "the right to entertain such religious beliefs as a person chooses, the right to declare religious beliefs openly and without fear of hindrance or reprisal, and the right to manifest religious belief by worship and practice or by teaching and dissemination."
Freedom of religion would also prohibit imposing religious requirements.
The immediate consequence of section 2, in this case, was the abolishment of federal Sunday closing laws.
In Syndicat Northcrest v. Amselem (2004), the Supreme Court drew up a definition of freedom of religion under the Quebec Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms, mindful of the overlap with section 2(a).
The majority found freedom of religion encompasses a right to religious practices if the individual has a sincere belief that the practice is connected to religion.
It would not matter whether the practice was needed according to religious authority.
If courts can believe an individual is telling the truth in saying a practice is connected to religion, the courts then ask whether the infringement of freedom of religion is severe enough to trigger section 2.
The Court also said religious beliefs are vacillating, so courts trying to determine an individual belief should be mindful that beliefs may change.
Following this test in Multani v. Commission scolaire Marguerite‑Bourgeoys (2006), the Court found freedom of religion should protect a non-violent Sikh student's right to wear a kirpan (dagger) in school.
In R. v.
N.S., 2012 SCC 72, the Supreme Court sought to find a middle ground on the issue of whether a witness can wear a face-covering niqab while testifying in a criminal trial.
The court found that the right to religious freedom must be balanced against the right of the accused to a fair trial.
In addition to freedom of religion, section 2(a) also guarantees freedom of conscience.
Professor Peter Hogg speculated this would include a right to atheism, despite the preamble to the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which recognizes the "supremacy of God."
The right has not spawned a great deal of case law, although Justice Bertha Wilson did rely on it in her opinion in R. v. Morgentaler (1988).
Finding laws against abortion to be a breach of the rights to liberty and security of the person under section 7 of the Charter, Wilson then argued this infringement could not be justified as being consistent with fundamental justice.
The legal protections found under fundamental justice could be defined as including other rights under the Charter, and in particular abortion laws breached freedom of conscience.
As she wrote, the "decision whether or not to terminate a pregnancy is essentially a moral decision, a matter of conscience."
She then said "conscientious beliefs which are not religiously motivated are equally protected by freedom of conscience in s.
2(a)."
No other judges signed Wilson's opinion.
Jean Chrétien, who was the attorney general during negotiations of the Charter, later recalled in his memoirs that freedom of conscience was nearly excluded from the Charter.
The federal and provincial negotiators found the right too difficult to define, and Chrétien eventually agreed to remove it.
A legal advisor for the federal government, Pierre Genest, then kicked Chrétien's chair, prompting Chrétien to joke, "I guess we leave it in.
Trudeau's spy just kicked me in the ass."
Freedom of expression (s. 2(b)) is perhaps one of the most significant Charter rights in influencing Canadian society.
Justice Peter Cory once wrote that it "is difficult to imagine a guaranteed right more important to a democratic society."
The section has been at the centre of a great amount of case law.
Freedom of speech had a limited background in Canada.
It has been an issue in federalism disputes, as provincial legislation infringing upon free speech has been taken as criminal legislation, which only the Parliament of Canada can validly create under section 91(27) of the Constitution Act, 1867.
Switzman v. Elbling (1957) is an example of a case in which this was discussed.
An Implied Bill of Rights theory further stated governments were limited in their abilities to infringe upon free speech by virtue of the preamble of the Constitution Act, 1867.
This preamble states Canada's constitution would be based upon Britain's, and Britain had limited free speech in 1867.
Furthermore, free speech is considered to be necessary for a parliamentary government to function.
Free speech was later included in the Canadian Bill of Rights.
The meaning of "expression" within section 2(b) has been read broadly as including any activity that conveys, or attempts to convey, meaning to the exception of acts of violence and threats of violence.
The Courts, however, have tried to maintain content neutrality by not considering the value of the expression.
Instead, the content is only examined during the section 1 analysis.
Freedom of expression is primarily seen as a negative right.
In Native Women's Association of Canada v. Canada (1994), the Court considered a claim that the government had to financially support an interest group in constitutional negotiations, as it had supported others.
Section 28 (sexual equality under the Charter) was used to reinforce this argument, since the rights claimants were an interest group.
Still, while the Supreme Court agreed discussions with the government is "unquestionably" a form of expression, the government did not seem to be guilty of suppressing any expression and thus the claim was dismissed.
A law will be found to violate the freedom of expression where the law either has the purpose or effect of violating the right.
A law's purpose can limit the right either through limiting the content or form of expression.
Limits on content are where the meaning of the expression is specifically forbidden by the law, such as hate-speech law, and is the most easily identifiable form of limitation.
Limiting the form of the expression can often invoke section 2(b) as it will often have the effect of limiting the content as well.
Where a law does not intend to limit the freedom of expression it may still infringe section 2(b) through its effects.
A law will be found to restrict expression if it has the effect of frustrating "the pursuit of truth, participation in the community, or individual self-fulfillment and human flourishing".
Commercial expression is recognized as an activity protected under section 2(b).
This includes advertising and any other similar means of expression used to sell goods and services.
In fact, even false or misleading advertising is protected.
The value of the expression does not come into play until the section 1 analysis.
The protection of commercial expression was first established in Ford v. Quebec (1988) where the Court struck down a Quebec law requiring all signs to be exclusively in French.
This was soon followed by Irwin Toy v. Quebec where the Court found that Quebec law prohibiting advertising to children to violate section 2(b) but was saved under section 1.
The Supreme Court has also found that restrictions on advertising by professionals to be protected.
As well, even communications for the purpose of prostitution was found to be protected as commercial expression.
Protesting by labour groups and trade unions have long been recognized as a protected form of expression.
There are not too many instances of limiting primary picketing.
Typically, the debate has been over whether secondary picketing can be restricted; this practice of picketing businesses not directly involved in a labour dispute has in the past been banned under the common law.
The most significant decision on limiting primary picketing is BCGEU v. BC (1988) where employees at the British Columbia Supreme Court, who were protesting as part of a province-wide public service employee strike, were ordered back to work by the Chief Justice of the court.
The order was found to clearly violate section 2(b) but the Supreme Court upheld it on section 1.
Section 2(b) guarantees freedom of thought, belief and opinion in addition to freedom of expression.
However, some have argued that freedoms of thought, belief and opinion in the Charter have had little practical consequence, and question whether governments have the capacity to stifle unspoken thoughts in any case.
The need to protect freedom of expression is considered a guiding principle of interpretation in civil cases between individuals.
In Crookes v. Newton, for example, the Supreme Court of Canada found that Section 2(b) must be considered in determining the extent to which common law libel restrictions should apply to new technologies such as internet hyperlinks.
Freedom of peaceful assembly under section 2(c) has not had a major impact on the case law.
In Reference re Public Service Employee Relations Act (Alta.)
(1987), the Supreme Court found that despite being written as a separate right, it was closely related to freedom of expression.
The Nova Scotia Supreme Court defined it in Fraser et al.
v. A.G.N.S.
et al.
(1986) as including rights to meet as part of a committee or as workers.
If there are membership fees to attend a meeting, prohibitions on being able to spend money for membership would be an abridgement of the right to peaceful assembly.
In 2011, Occupy Canada's protests in public parks raised questions of whether their eviction was prohibited by freedom of assembly, as well as expression and association.
Freedom of association is guaranteed under section 2(d).
This right provides individuals the right to establish, belong to and maintain to any sort of organization, unless that organization is otherwise illegal.
Generally, this is used in the labour context where employees are given the right to associate with certain unions or other similar group to represent their interests in labour disputes or negotiations.
It is important to note that this right only protects the right of individuals to form associations and not associations themselves.
Consequently, government legislation affecting the powers of established labour associations do not necessarily invoke section 2(d).
It is only where legislation restricts the associative nature of an activity will section 2 be invoked.
However, in a landmark decision, Health Services and Support – Facilities Subsector Bargaining Assn.
v. British Columbia (2007), the Supreme Court ruled that freedom of association guaranteed by s.2(d) includes a procedural right to collective bargaining.
The Court ruled in this case that legislation that "substantially interferes" with the process of collective bargaining is a s.2(d) infringement.
The test for "substantial interference" is twofold: (1) the importance of the matter affected to the process of collective bargaining, and more specifically, the capacity of union members to come together and pursue collective goals in concert; and (2) the manner in which the measure impacts on the collective right to good faith negotiation and consultation.
It is not certain whether the decision in the Health Services case overturns jurisprudence arising from the so-called "labour trilogy" cases of 1987 that found that s.2(d) did not include a right to collective bargaining.
The Supreme Court has since found in Ontario (Attorney General) v. Fraser, 2011 SCC 20 that the right to collective bargaining does not require government to take an active role in promoting and fostering collective bargaining, but merely to refrain from excessive interference with the collective bargaining process.
In effect, the right to collective bargaining "guarantees a process, not a result."
The Fraser decision was affirmed and expanded upon by the Ontario Court of Appeal in 2012 in Association of Justice Counsel v. Canada (Attorney General).
Typically, where a union is denied a right it does not preclude the employees from forming a separate association.
In Delisle v. Canada (1999), members of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police were excluded from the public services legislation.
The Supreme Court held that they were not precluded from forming their own association outside of the Act.
However, in contrast the decision of Dunmore v. Ontario indicated that agricultural workers who were excluded from provincial labour relations legislation were entitled to be included because individually they were unable to form their own associations, and consequently, this imposed a duty upon the government to include them.
The freedom of association also includes the freedom not to associate.
In certain employment circumstances employees are required to contribute to a union as conditions of their employment (see Rand formula).
However, mandatory associations do not invoke section 2(d) in and of themselves.
In Lavigne, the Court found that the right not to be associated extended only to where the association supported causes that went beyond what is necessary for employee representation.
More generally, the Supreme Court had stated that the right is violated only when the mandatory association imposes "ideological conformity".
Such violations have also mostly been found by the Supreme Court to be justified under section 1, resulting in a right not to associate that has more theorical than practical effects.
In R. v. Advance Cutting & Coring Ltd. (2001), the Supreme Court was called to examine the constitutional validity of a Quebec law that required all persons working in the province's construction industry to join a designated union.
Eight of nine judges (Justice Claire L'Heureux-Dubé dissenting) confirmed that section 2 includes, to at least some degree, the negative right to not associate.
With a majority of 5 judges to 4, the Court determined that the law at issue violated this right.
But with the same majority (judge Frank Iacobucci "switching camps" on the two issues and citing a "unique and complex historical context" in Quebec), the Court deemed the law to be justified in a free and democratic society under section 1 and thus constitutional.
Edward E. Heppenstall (8 May 1901 in England &ndash; 1994) was a leading Bible scholar and theologian of the Seventh-day Adventist Church.
A 1985 questionnaire of North American Adventist lecturers revealed Heppenstall was the Adventist writer who had most influenced them.
Heppenstall was born in 1901 at Rotherham, Yorkshire, England to Arthur and Georgina Heppenstall.
He had one sister, Margaret.
Early in their lives, about 1915, their father died.
Arthur and Georgina had been married only ten years.
In 1915, Georgina and her two children joined the Adventist church.
The Rotherham Adventist church met at the Heppenstall home.
During middle to late 1920s, Ted Heppenstall worked as a student colporteur in various locations in the British Isles.
In 1929, he served on the staff of Stanborough College as Preceptor (Men's Dean) and English teacher.
The British Adventist media referred to him as E. A. Heppenstall.
He moved to the United States in 1931.
He earned a BA degree at Emmanuel Missionary College, majoring in English literature and also doing work in science and theology.
Then he got a master's degree from the University of Michigan in History and Semitics.
While teaching at La Sierra College he earned a PhD degree in the field of Religious Education from the University of Southern California in 1951.
He pastored several churches, and also served as youth director for the Michigan Conference.
He served as a professor of theology at La Sierra College, now La Sierra University, from 1940 to 1955.
He taught and was also the chairman of the systematic theology department at the Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary at Andrews University (1955–1966).
He was also professor of theology at Loma Linda University (1966–1970).
The commentary on the Second Epistle to the Corinthians for the Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary was written by him.
He had two children, both doctors – Malcolm Heppenstall, MD; and Astrid Heppenstall Heger, MD.
His presentations on the law and covenants at the 1952 Bible Conference were highly influential upon the theology of the church.
Heppenstall was responsible for a more fuller understanding of the church's "investigative judgment" teaching.
Heppenstall was one of the most influential scholars to come out against M. L. Andreasen's final generation theology.
While upholding the "pillar" doctrines of the Adventist pioneers, he moved forward on the understanding on such issues as the human nature of Christ and the atonement.
He emphasized, as did Questions on Doctrine, the atonement on the cross with a continuing ministry in heaven in the antitypical Day of Atonement.
Beyond these issues, he stressed such teachings as the helplessness of human beings to do good of their own selves, justification by faith in relation to the entire plan of salvation, the impossibility of humanly achieving what some people think of as sinless perfection, the fact that Jesus was not just like other children of fallen Adam and the new covenant experience.
Heppenstall's theology was seen by some as more cross-centered, Christ-centered, evangelical form of theology which in some ways changed from the traditional SDA understanding of salvation.
This plainly shows up in Heppenstall's ideas on character perfection, the teaching that through the efforts of Christ people must overcome sin, he argued that nowhere does the Bible equate perfection with sinlessness when speaking of the child of God.
He also said that salvation by grace means being shaken loose from what he considered to be the folly of implanting our ego at the center of the plan of salvation with the belief that we must arrive at sinless perfection to be sure of salvation.
Focusing on the fact that sin is deeper than actions, that it is a part of human nature, Heppenstall said that sin does not reign in the true Christian's life, but it does remain in the sense that human nature, with its inherent limitations, cannot even faultlessly discern the complete will of God.
He argued from the Bible that it is essentially spiritual maturity and walking with God in love.
"Thus perfection, he pointed out while citing Ellen White's thoughts on the topic, is relative."
Ellen White does, however, state that we must be transformed in the process of sanctification and overcome sin before the end time, and Christ's return.
SDA Historian George Knight argues that Ellen's view was not the same one held by Andreasen.
He notes how White describes that Jesus, as a child, unlike other children, had an inclination to right rather than having sinful tendencies.
Andreasen ideas this issue, agreed with that of with Jones, Waggoner, and Prescott, but not with Ellen White's understanding of the exact content and disposition of the "sinful" nature of Christ.
White's understanding on the subject however is still very much under dispute.
With his conclusions, Heppenstall returned to a basic Wesleyan concept of perfection as love in dynamic growth.
While Heppenstall's writings were influential, his teaching career was much more so.
He influenced a generation of preachers and religion teachers through his college and seminary lectures.
Themes highlighted by Heppenstall would echo in other classrooms through such teachers as Hans LaRondelle and Raoul Dederen, and in the pulpit through Morris Venden, throughout the 1970s and 1980s.
One Heppenstall protégé would eventually attain special visibility in the church.
Heppenstall recognized the talents of Desmond Ford in the mid-1950s.
In the early 1960s they both fought against what they believed to be the excesses and distortions of the Andreasen/Robert Brinsmead (in his early stage) perfectionist theology.
But Ford would eventually move beyond Heppenstall in some theological areas that his mentor could not agree with.
Heppenstall was disappointed when he failed to dissuade Ford from his position at Glacier View, subsequently writing to him that he "was shocked at how far" he "had swung to the left Biblically and doctrinally".
Desmond Ford apostatized and left the Adventist church.
Influenced by Ford, Robert Brinsmead followed suit.
Earlier Adventism tended to view the judgment in stern tones, with God keeping out those who hadn't been faithful.
More recent times have witnessed an emphasis on the belief that God is for people, that He is on their side and wants them to be in the kingdom.
Heppenstall said God's judgment will be in favor of believers.
God's people have nothing to fear from the judgment with Christ as their advocate.
The saint of the last days can also find confidence and security in facing the judgment when their names are confessed before the Father and the angelic host.
Spirituality Shopper was a short lived British television series that ran on Channel 4 for 3 episodes in 2005.
It was presented by Christian athlete, Jonathan Edwards.
In each episode, a person looked at four different religious practices that could be implemented in their (non-religious) lives to see if it would bring them inner peace in the hustle and bustle of the 21st century.
In each episode, four of the practices were looked at:
Temple Beth Israel is located in Stevens Point, Wisconsin.
It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2007.
The building is now a museum known as the Beth Israel Synagogue and is operated by the Portage County Historical Society.
Displays include Jewish religious practices and the history of the Stevens Point Jewish community.
The structure is the third oldest synagogue in Wisconsin.
It underwent remodeling in 1951.
Plautdietsch-Freunde is a Germany-based non-profit organization with the goal of documenting, nurturing, and promoting the Plautdietsch language.
Mennonite speakers of Plautdietsch who emigrated from Western Prussia through Southern Russia (present-day Ukraine), and who now live in Germany, Canada, Paraguay, and other parts of the world, are also known as Russian Mennonites and have been united by religious practices.
Through its web resources and its journal Plautdietsch FRIND, Plautdietsch-Freunde offers an international forum for all those who speak, read, write, or simply have an interest in the language.
The organization was founded by Peter Wiens in 1999, acting president is Heinrich Siemens.
In Aztec mythology, Ometochtli is the collective or generic name of various individual deities and supernatural figures associated with pulque ( ), an alcoholic beverage derived from the fermented sap of the maguey plant.
By the Late Postclassic period of Mesoamerican chronology a collection of beliefs and religious practices had arisen in the context of the manufacture and ritualistic consumption of the beverage, known as the "pulque (or octli) cult" with probable origins in a mountainous region of central Mexico.
In Aztec society octli rituals formed a major component of Aztec religion and observance, and there were numerous local deities and classes of sacerdotes ("priests") associated with it.
"Ometochtli" is a calendrical name in Classical Nahuatl, with the literal meaning of "two rabbit".
Adeline Marie Masquelier (born 1960) is a Professor of Anthropology at Tulane University in New Orleans, Louisiana.
She received her Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1993 studying under the prominent Africanist and Anthropologist Jean Comaroff, and has done her field work among the people of rural Niger in the Hausa town of Dogondoutchi.
Her research focuses have included spirit possession, reformist Islam, Bori religious practices, twinship, witchcraft, the pathology of consumption, medical anthropology, and gender.
Currently she is researching the Izala Islamic reformist movement in Niger, examining issues including bridewealth, worship, and dress.
Ali Coulibaly (r. 1757 - c. 1759) was a king of the Bambara Empire of Ségou.
Son of empire founder Bitòn Coulibaly and brother to the previous king, Dinkoro Coulibaly, Ali took the throne following his brother's assassination.
A devout Muslim, he attempted to convert his largely animist Bambara subjects.
Ali became widely unpopular for his interference with local religious practices and his ban on millet beer.
His death triggered a decade of instability in the Bambara Empire until the 1766 ascension of Ngolo Diarra to the throne.
Maithil Brahmins are a Hindu Brahmin community from the Mithila region of Nepal and India.
They are one of the five Pancha-Gauda Brahmin communities.
In the 1960s and 1970s, the Maithil Brahmins became politically significant in Bihar.
Binodanand Jha, Lalit Narayan Mishra, and Jagannath Mishra emerged as prominent political leaders of the community.
Under the Chief Ministry of Jagannath Mishra, many Maithil Brahmins assumed important political positions in Bihar.
They worship Shakti in various forms; some are also Shaivites and Vaishnavites.
The Someshwara temple at Madiwala was built in around 1247 AD.
The Someshwara Temple at Halasuru, one of the oldest in the city.
While the main deity is Nandi, other gods like Brahma and Vishnu are also worshiped here.
Though originally built by the Cholas, it was later renovated by Kempegowda who built the Rajagopuram and constructed walls around the temple.
The 800-year-old Kaalikaamba Kamatheshwara Temple at Basavangudi is the second largest temple in the city.
Apart from religious practices, the temples were utilized for scholarly activities thus providing employment for the people.
A biblical paraphrase is a literary work that has as its goal, not the translation of the Bible, but rather, the rendering of the Bible into a work that retells all or part of the Bible in a manner that accords with a particular set of theological or political doctrines.
Such works "weave with ease and without self-consciousness, in and out of material from the volume we know between hard covers as the Bible...(bringing it) into play with disparate sources, religious practices, and (prayers.)"
Such works were the most common form of biblical literature in Medieval Europe.
The Historia Scholastica was the most successful biblical paraphrase.
The Paraphrases of Erasmus are another notable work.
Paraphrases could take the form of poetry, prose, or be written as the lyrics of songs such as the Presbyterian paraphrases.
El Calvario Church is a church in Cobán, Guatemala.
The church is the most sacred site in Cobán and the focal point of religious practices throughout the year and for pilgrimages.
The church is also important in local folklore when a Lacandon hunter according to legend encountered two jaguars sleeping on a rock and instead of killing them he left them in peace and when he returned the following day, the place where the jaguars had been he saw an image of Christ.
It was this sighting that led to the decision to build a church on the spot.
The terrace of the church is noted for its panoramic views of the city and views of the Rocja Mountains and Xucaneb, the highest point in Alta Verapaz to the southeast.
Gramanya (Devanagari:ग्रामण्य, ) refers to a village-dispute or discussion (esp.
upon matters of caste) in India in past few centuries.
Gramanya is a crystallisation of conflicts between two castes of individuals belonging to the same caste, and the same group, about observance of certain religious practices vis-a-vis, other members of the society or of the particular caste group.
There are two types of Gramanyas inter-caste,and intra-caste.
Records mention Gramanyas in Pune and Mumbai in late 18th and 19th century,various castes like Chitpavan, Daivadnya, CKP and Marathas were involved in many disputes.
Most of the disputes were related to religious ritual purity and social status.
Sakarias Jaan Leppik (born 24 June 1969) is the priest of the Värska and Saatse parishes of the Orthodox Church of Estonia in South-East of Estonia, thinker, culture analyst, theatre and film critic, musician and journalist.
He was born in Valga, in 1969.
He studied in Tõrva Secondary School as well as in Tõrva Music School and graduated both in 1987.
During 1987-88 he studied biology at the University of Tartu.
During 1991-1996 he was a student of the Institute of Theology of the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tallinn.
He has also studied political science on courses of the Konrad Adenauer Stiftung, taken media studies at the World Council of Churches, apologetics and history of religion courses at the University of Aarhus, Denmark and studied Greek language at the University of Ioannina, Greece.
During 1999-2003 he was a Member of the Estonian Parliament (Riigikogu).
2003-2005 the Chief Manager of the International Theatre Festival of Tallinn City Theatre.
After that he was an editor of foreign economy news in Baltic News Service.
He was the creator of the programme "12th hour" in Estonian TV in 1998.
Since 1994 he has been one of the programme creators of the Estonian Public Broadcasting and lately Klassikaraadio.
Since 2006 he is a priest of the Orthodox Church of Estonia and the chief editor of its cultural magazine "Faith and Life".
Sakarias J. Leppik is also a professional singer of the Gregorian chant ensemble Vox Clamantis since 1996.
The Film Journalist of the Year by culture newspaper Sirp.
He is an alumnus of the ethnomusicology of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre since 2011.
Father Sakarias is married to Marion Leppik, a cultural anthropologist.
Kurt Noll, also known as K.L.
Noll, is an American biblical scholar, historian, educator and author.
He is currently Associate Professor and Chair of the Religion Department at Brandon University in Brandon, Manitoba, Canada where he teaches Judaism, Christianity, biblical languages and Islam.
He holds a PhD and a Master of Theology from Union Theological Seminary in Virginia (now called Union Presbyterian Seminary), as well a Master of Arts (Honors) from Lutheran Theological Seminary at Gettysburg and a Bachelor of Arts (Summa Cum Laude) from Shippensburg University.
Prior to entering academia, he was a professional illustrator and designer.
His books include The Faces of David (Sheffield: Sheffield Academic Press, 1997), Canaan and Israel in Antiquity: An Introduction (London: Sheffield Academic Press/Continuum, 2001), and Canaan and Israel in Antiquity: A Textbook on History and Religion (London: T&T Clark/Bloomsbury, 2012).
He has also published a number of articles and reviews.
Noll is the author of a chapter in Is This Not the Carpenter?
The Question of the Historicity of the Figure of Jesus (edited by Thomas L. Thompson and Thomas S. Verenna.
London: Equinox, 2012) entitled “Investigating Earliest Christianity without Jesus”.
The article methodically explains how it is possible that a literal Jesus was invented as a "Darwinian strategy" by the early church to persuade people to become Christians.
Although his article tends to support the Christ Myth Theory, he concludes, however, that the lack of historical accuracy in the gospels is not proof that Jesus did not exist, and ultimately, it is not important if he lived or not explaining it “is irrelevant to an understanding of the earliest social movements that evolved into the religion now called Christianity.”
Francesca Stavrakopoulou (born October 3, 1975 in Bromley, London with an English mother and a Greek father) is Professor of Hebrew Bible and Ancient Religion in the University of Exeter's Department of Theology and Religion.
The main focus of her research is Israelite and Judahite history and religion.
She is noted for her academic and media roles: presenting a three-part television series on the BBC The Bible's Buried Secrets (2011; not to be confused with the 2008 NOVA programme of the same name), and for contributions to Channel 4's series The Bible: A History.
She describes herself as "an atheist with huge respect for religion" and regards her work as "a branch of history like any other".
She has often been quoted as believing many of the Bible's major characters are merely fabrications created by ancient writers who "had a different understanding of what was fact or fiction."
Her DPhil from the University of Oxford, </ref> which examined the creation of an imagined past within the Hebrew Bible, was subsequently published with the title King Manasseh and Child Sacrifice: Biblical Distortions of Historical Realities.
Her second book was Land of our Fathers: The Roles of Ancestor Veneration in Biblical Land Claims.
She has also co-edited Religious Diversity in Ancient Israel and Judah and Ecological Hermeneutics: Biblical, Historical and Theological Perspectives.
She was a junior research fellow at Worcester College, Oxford, before moving to Exeter.
Stavrakopoulou is the secretary of the British-based Society for Old Testament Study, and a member of the European Association of Biblical Studies and of the US-based Society of Biblical Literature.
She identifies as an atheist.
Hans Heinrich Schmid (22 October 1937 in Winterthur, Canton of Zürich—4 October 2014) was a Swiss Protestant Reformed theologian, University Professor and University Rector.
He was the son of the Zurich pastor Gotthard Schmid (1909-1968).
He studied theology at the Universities of Zurich and Göttingen and received his doctorate in 1965 in Zurich.
In the winter semester 1966/67 he was habilitated in Zurich and a year later was appointed as an Assistant Professor.
In 1969, Schmid was made Associate Professor of Old Testament studies.
In 1972, he became the Rector of Bethel Theological Seminary (Kirchlichen Hochschule Bethel).
In the summer semester 1976 he was Professor of Old Testament scholarship and general history of religion at the University of Zurich.
From 1988 to 2000 he served as rector of the University of Zurich.
During his tenure, in 1998, the University of Zurich became an independent legal entity of the Canton of Zurich.
Hans Heinrich Schmid was married in 1962 and had two sons and two daughters.
Schmid was a respected authority on the question of Pentateuchal origins (the question of how the first five books of the bible – Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Book of Numbers and Deuteronomy – came to be written).
His book Der sogenannte Jahwist (The So-called Yahwist, 1976) appeared at about the same time as two other important works, John Van Seters' Abraham in History and Tradition (1975), and Rolf Rendtorff's "Das überlieferungsgeschichtliche Problem des Pentateuch" (The Problem of the Transmission of the Pentateuch, 1977).
These three studies inaugurated a heated discussion in scholarly circles on the validity of the then-dominant consensus on Pentateuchal origins, the Documentary Hypothesis.
Thus, Schmid significantly contributed to the advancement of the Supplementary hypothesis of Pentateuch composition.
According to Schmid, both the J material and the P material were products of the Babylonian exile period (6th century BC) and were directly derived from Babylonian sources (see also Panbabylonism).
Article is based on German Wikipedia
Marie Dentière (c. 1495&ndash;1561) was a Genevan Protestant reformer and theologian.
She played an active role in Genevan religion and politics, playing a large role in the closure of Geneva's convents, and preaching with such reformers as John Calvin and William Farel.
In addition to her writings on the Reformation, Dentiere's writings seem to be a defense and propagation of the female perspective in the rapidly changing world.
Her second husband, Antoine Froment, was also active in the reformation.
Much of Marie Dentière's early life remains unknown.
She was born in Tournai (in current Belgium) into a relatively well-off family of nobility, and entered an Augustinian nunnery at a young age, eventually becoming abbess.
However Martin Luther's preaching against monasticism led her to flee to Strasbourg to escape persecution—not only for abandoning her position as nun but for converting to the Reformation.
Strasbourg was a popular refuge for Protestants at that time.
While in Strasbourg, in 1528, she married Simon Robert, a young priest.
Soon they left for an area outside of Geneva to preach the Reformation, and had five children together.
Robert died 5 years later in 1533, and the now widowed Dentiere married Antoine Froment, who was at work in Geneva with Farel.
Dentière's outspokenness strongly irritated Farel and Calvin, which in turn drove a rift between them and Froment.
Dentière's work stresses the importance of the Reformation, but also the need for a larger role for women in religious practice.
To Dentière, women and men were equally qualified and entitled to the interpretation of Scripture and practice of religion.
In Geneva in 1536, following the successful rebellion against the Duke of Savoy and the local prince-bishop, Dentiere composed The War and Deliverance of the City of Geneva.
The work was published anonymously, and called for Genevans to adopt the Reformation.
In 1539, Dentière wrote an open letter to Marguerite of Navarre, sister of the King.
The letter, called the Epistre tres utile, or "very useful letter", called for an expulsion of Catholic clergy from France, advocated a greater role for women in the church, and criticized the foolishness of the Protestant clergy who compelled Calvin and Farel to leave Geneva.
The letter was quickly suppressed due to its subversiveness.
The full title of the letter is very long, and is listed at the end of the article.
However her encouragement of women's involvement in writing and theology angered Genevan authorities.
Upon publication, the Epistle was seized and most of the copies destroyed.
Only approximately 400 copies of the letter survived and entered circulation.
Following the publication and subsequent suppression of Dentière's work, the Geneven council prevented the publication of any other woman author in the city for the rest of the 16th century.
Lauren Frances Winner (born 1976) is a historian, author and lecturer.
She is Assistant Professor of Christian Spirituality at Duke Divinity School.
</ref> Winner writes and lectures on Christian practice, the history of Christianity in America, and Jewish-Christian relations.
Winner was born to a Jewish father and a Southern Baptist mother, and was raised Jewish.
She converted to Orthodox Judaism in her freshman year at Columbia University, and then to Christianity while doing her Masters degree at Cambridge University.
She completed her doctoral work at Columbia University in 2006.
Winner's fourth book, A Cheerful and Comfortable Faith: Anglican Religious Practice in the Elite Households of Colonial Virginia is based on her dissertation.
Winner has worked as a book editor of Beliefnet and senior editor of Christianity Today.
In 2000 she wrote a column asserting that few young evangelicals took a commitment to premarital chastity seriously.
Julia Duin suggests that Winner was a "fairly recent convert" at the time, and "the evangelical response to Winner was livid."
Duin goes on to relate that "Christianity Today quickly demoted her to a staff writer spot when people started asking why such a recent convert in her early twenties and still in grad school had managed to attain senior writer status at such a revered publication."
Since 2000, Winner's writing and theology has continued to evolve.
She completed a Masters of Divinity Degree at Duke University in 2007.
She has served as a visiting Fellow at the Center for the Study of Religion at Princeton University and the Institute of Sacred Music at Yale University and volunteers regularly at the Raleigh Correctional Center for Women.
Her memoir, Girl Meets God has been described as "a passionate and thoroughly engaging account of a continuing spiritual journey within two profoundly different faiths."
A second memoir, Still: Notes on a Mid-faith Crisis, released on January 31, 2012, chronicles her thoughts on God as she descends into doubt and spiritual crisis following the failure of her brief (2003–2009) marriage.
Christianity Today calls Still "an instant spiritual classic."
Her other books include Mudhouse Sabbath and Real Sex: The Naked Truth about Chastity.
Winner was ordained to the priesthood in the Episcopal Diocese of Virginia on December 17, 2011.
Jeanne Halgren Kilde is an American academic whose research centers on religion and, most notably, religious architecture.
She currently serves as the chair of the University of Minnesota's department of religious studies.
She previously served on the faculties of Macalaster College, Cleveland State University, the University of Notre Dame, and St. Francis University.
Rather than seeing church architecture as being passively shaped by religion, Kilde views architecture as a force that exerts profound influence on religion.
As one reviewer writes, church architecture is "Neither mere witnesses to transformations of religious thought nor simple backgrounds for religious practice, church buildings are, in Kilde's view, dynamic participants in religious change and goldmines of information on Christianity itself."
Kilde proposes that the central purposes of church architecture are related to three specific kinds of power: divine power (theology), personal power (the perceived relationship between the individual and God), and social power (the whole host of human relationships within church settings).
Ultimately, these three modalities of power become reified in church architecture.
Beyond her work with architecture, Kilde has published widely on a variety of subjects including the American evangelical movement, women in religious contexts, apocalypse, and the Left Behind series.
Kilde's work has been well-received within the academic press.
The Journal of Religion reported that "Kilde's careful and thorough research in published and unpublished congregational, denomnational, and architectural records successfully engages architectural history, religious studies, and social and cultural history."
The Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians called Kilde's work the "Rosetta stone for an undervalued genre of American ecclesiastical architecture."
The Religious Studies Review writes that Kilde's research "synthesizes, and enriches the narrative of both American religious history and American architectural history, which will enlighten professional and amateur scholars alike."
Kilde received her B.A.
and M.A.
degrees in English Literature from the University of Wisconsin&ndash;Eau Claire and completed her doctoral degree at the University of Minnesota's Program in American Studies.
http://www.oup.com/us/catalog/general/subject/ReligionTheology/HistoryofChristianity/?view=usa&ci=9780195314694 [1] [2] [3] http://www.historycooperative.org/cgi-bin/justtop.cgi?act=justtop&url=http://www.historycooperative.org/journals/ahr/108.4/br_46.html
The Theban Tomb of Meru TT240 is located in the El-Assasif overlooking the mortuary temple of Mentuhotep II (around 2000 BC).
Meru was the son of Iku and Nebti.
The tomb consists of a great courtyard at the hills of the El-Assasif.
The tomb itself is cut into the rock and consisted of a corridor and a second corridor which goes down to the burial chamber.
The first corridor was found undecorated, while the burial chamber is fully decorated with religious texts, several false doors, the depiction of an offering table and an offering list.
The sarcophagus of Meru was cut into the ground of the burial chamber and also decorated on its inside.
Meru was a high official under Mentuhotep II with the titles royal sealer and overseer of sealers.
He is also known from a big stela now in Turin.
The stela is dated to year 46 of the king.
The provenance of the stela is not known, but comes perhaps from this tomb.
A tablet, in a religious context, is a term used for certain religious texts.
Judaism and Christianity maintain that Moses brought the Ten Commandments down from Mount Sinai in the form of two tablets of stone.
According to the Book of Exodus, God delivered the tablets twice, the first set having been smashed by Moses in his anger at the idol-worship of the Israelites.
The Preserved Tablet (al-Lawhu 'l-Mahfuz), the heavenly record of all that has happened and will happen, contains qadar.
Qadar ( , transliterated qadar, meaning "fate", "divine fore-ordainment", "predestination") is the concept of divine destiny in Islam.
The term "tablet" is part of the title of many shorter works of Bahá'u'lláh, founder of the Bahá'í Faith, and his son and successor `Abdu'l-Bahá.
Pandit Jia Lal Dhar Saraf was a prominent personality of Reshipeer mohalla in Srinagar, Kashmir.
He was a renowned Sanskrit scholar with great proficiency in astrology.
He authored many religious texts.
He also translated many Sanskrit literary works into Kashmiri.
One of his most prolific works is the translation of Panchastavi into Kashmiri.
He had a melodious voice.
Saraf used to go to Hari Parbat every Saturday evening, reciting and singing bhajans and leelas the whole night in praise of Mata Sharika.
He managed his family business, which was run under the title of M/s H.R.
Jia Lal and Co.
He was the owner of hotel 'Naya Kashmir Hotel' which is right across the Clock Tower (ghantaghar) in Lal Chowk, Srinagar.
Dr. M. N. Singaramma (1920–2006) was a scholar, writer and social activist from Mandya in Karnataka, Southern India.
She wrote many philosophical books and articles under the pen name Sridevi.
Her love for Hindi, despite having been born and brought up in Southern India earned her a lot of respect and admiration.
She is still remembered by scholars working on philosophical and religious texts as a pathbreaker during times when there was no one doing any research on these subjects.
She primarily worked for educating and uplifting of women’s status and enabling them to independently earn a living.
The Saura Purana ( , ) is one of the Shaiva Upapuranas, a genre of Hindu religious texts.
The printed editions of this text have 69 chapters.
The chapter colophons of this text mention it as a part of the Brahma Purana.
It is presumed that a version of this text, different from the extant one, existed earlier.
The extant Saura Purana, though proclaimed by Surya, eulogises Shiva and his shakti Parvati.
This text praises Varanasi and describes its various sacred places and lingas.
It consists of a version of the narrative of Urvasi and Pururavas in chapter 31.
It also deals with Devi worship, merits of dānas (donations), vratas (vows) and brief descriptions of the Puranas.
Chapters 38-40 contain attacks on Madhvacharya, an early medieval philosopher and his works in the form of a prophecy.
The early printed editions of this text published by the Anandashrama (Anandashrama Sanskrit Series 18), Poona in 1889 and the Vangavasi Press, Calcutta in 1908 (along with a Bengali translation) are practically identical.
Pahuj River is a river flowing through the historic city of Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh.< <br /> It probably originates near the hills of Jhansi or in Tikamgarh district of Madhya Pradesh.
It has been referred as the Pushpavati in religious texts.
This river also flows through Unnao Balaji 20km from Jhansi, famous for Sun Temple and people.
It is a tributary of the Sindh River, which joins the Yamuna River in Etawah, Uttar Pradesh state, just after the Chambal River confluence with the Yamuna river.
It is a small and dry river which passes through the Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Jhansi.
Due to the construction of Pahuj dam near Jhansi, the river has increased its water level and the dam is an important picnic spot for Jhansi city-dwellers.
Samut khoi ( , , "khoi books") or samut thai (Thai: ) are a type of folding-book manuscript which were historically widely used in the areas of nowadays Cambodia, Laos and Thailand, as well as in Myanmar, where they are known as parabaik.
They are usually made with the paper of the Siamese rough bush or khoi tree, and are not bound like Western books but are folded in an accordion style.
Samut khoi are made either with black paper (in Thailand known as samut thai dam), or with white paper (samut thai khao).
The use of samut khoi in Thailand dates to the Ayutthaya period.
They were usually used for secular texts including royal chronicles, legal documents and works of literature, while palm-leaf manuscripts were more commonly used for religious texts.
Kumar ( ; Sanskrit: कुमार) is a Hindu title, a given name, middle name, or a family name found in India, though not specific to any caste or community.
It is a generic title which variously means son, boy, prince, unmarried or chaste.
It is the 9th most common family name in the world, 3rd most common in India and 2nd most common in Fiji.
It is more common in Northern India and the most common family name in Haryana, Delhi, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry.
The origin of Kumar can be traced back to early development of Hinduism and its origin in India.
The first usage of Kumar was for the Four Kumāras, the four sons of Brahma from the Puranic texts of Hinduism named Sanaka, Sanatana, Sanandana, and Sanat.
In Skanda Purana, the largest Mahapurana, a genre of eighteen Hindu religious texts, the text is devoted mainly to the leelas of Kartikeya, son of Shiva and Parvati.
"Kumar" is used to refer Kartikeya.
Charles Kensington Salaman (March 3, 1814 – June 23, 1901) was a British pianist and composer.
Salaman was born and died in London.
His music teachers included Charles Neate and William Crotch, and he became a member of the Royal Academy of Music at the age of ten.
He studied in Paris under Henri Herz, and returned to London in 1830.
He later founded the Musical Society of London.
Many of his compositions are musical settings of religious texts.
He also wrote the book Jews as They Are with the intention of dispelling common myths about Judaism.
Salaman adapted "He that Shall Endure to the End" from Mendelssohn's Elijah as a setting for Psalm 93 (Adonai Malakh), sung on most Friday nights in the sabbath eve service of the London Spanish & Portuguese Jewish community.
His sister was the accomplished portrait painter, Julia Goodman.
The Islamic dietary laws (Halal) and the Jewish dietary laws (Kashrut; in English, Kosher) are both quite detailed, and contain both points of similarity and discord.
Both are dietary laws of Abrahamic religions and Semitic cultures, but they are described in distinct religious texts: an explanation of the Islamic code of law found in the Quran and Sunnah and a Jewish code of laws found in the Torah and explained in the Talmud.
Shechita is the ritual slaughter of mammals and birds according to Jewish law.
Dhabiha is the method used to slaughter an animal in Islamic tradition.
Shechita requires that an animal be conscious and this is taken to mean the modern practice of electrical, gas, or percussive stunning before slaughter is forbidden.
Most Muslim authorities also forbid the use of electrical, gas, or percussive stunning.
However, other authorities state that stunning is permissible so long as it is not the direct cause of the animal's death.
Cladius Labib (Arabic Ikladius; born in Meir, Upper Egypt in 1868, died 1918) was an Egyptian Egyptologist.
His family was known for copying church books.
He used to accompany his father to the Al-Mouharak Monastery to learn Coptic with the monks.
He was the youngest of three brothers, the eldest being Pahor and the middle being Tadros.
Labib learned Egyptian hieroglyphs from the French Egyptologists and was the second Egyptian to learn this ancient language (the first was Ahmad Kamal).
Claudius Labib was also responsible for editing a series of religious texts used by the Coptic Orthodox Church.
The works were published at Cairo as follows: Katamãrus, 1900-2; Euchologion, 1904; Funeral Service, 1905.
Ipi was an Ancient Egyptian vizier of the early Middle Kingdom.
His only secure attestation known today is his Theban Tomb (TT315) (MMA 516).T The tomb was found in the rocks of Deir el-Bahari overlooking the funerary complex of Mentuhotep II.
It consisted of a great courtyard, a corridor, a chapel and a burial chamber.
The corridor and chapel were found undecorated and only the burial chamber had painted decorations, religious texts and the titles and name of Ipi on its walls.
The burial chamber housed a sarcophagus, sunk into the floor.
The courtyard in front of Ipi's tomb comprised the burial of the servant Meseh, where the Heqanakht papyri were discovered.
In another chamber were found about sixty vessels and an embalming table, presumably for the mummy of Ipi.
The datation of Ipi's lifetime is disputed, but he most likely lived during the early Twelfth Dynasty.
Chiara Matraini (1515–1604) was an Italian Renaissance writer from Lucca.
Primarily known for her love poetry, composed in the style of Petrarch, she also authored a number of spiritual prose and verse texts.
Matraini wrote throughout her long life, publishing her last text, the Dialoghi spirituali (1602), when she was well into her 80s.
Her many projects included genres that were uncommon for women writers of her time, such as an oration on the art of war, a translation from Latin to vernacular, and several didactic religious texts.
Matraini's writing demonstrates an eagerness to compose in an authoritative voice.
She was married to Vincenzo Cantarini, with whom she had one son.
Her husband's early death apparently facilitated her active literary life.
Her literary contacts included Benedetto Varchi and Lodovico Domenichi.
Kachru is the last name of Kashmiri Saraswat Brahmins or most commonly Kashmiri Pandits.
Kachru is derived from the word kachur which in kashmiri means "blonde" or "with golden hair".
Ancient people in Kashmir used to recognize and classify on the basis of looks and professions.
This caste being a look based surname.
Many argue that the meaning of Kachru come may come from a craft, such as the name "Fisher" which was given to fishermen.
Some of these craft-based last names can be a profession in another language.
Because of this it is essential to know the ethnicity of a name, and the languages spoken by its family members.
Many modern names like Kachru originate from religious texts like the Bhagavadgītā, the Bible, and so forth.
Commonly these names relate to a religious expression such as "Worthy of praise".
In the writing of Michel Foucault, the author function is the author as a function of discourse.
The term was developed by Michel Foucault in his 1969 essay "What Is an Author?"
where he discusses whether a text requires or is assigned an author.
Foucault posits that the legal system was central in the rise of the author, as an author was needed (in order to be punished) for making transgressive statements.
This is made evident through the rise of the printing press during the time of the Reformation, when religious texts that circulated challenged the authority of the Catholic Church.
The author function does not affect all texts in the same way.
For example, the author of a science text book is not as clear or definable as the author of a well known novel.
It is not a spontaneous creation or entity, but a carefully constructed social position.
The Valuev Circular ( ; ) of 18 July 1863 was a secret decree (ukaz) of the Minister of Internal Affairs of the Russian Empire Pyotr Valuev (Valuyev) by which a large portion of the publications (religious, and literature used for school training) in Ukrainian language was forbidden.
The Circular has put the reason for the growing number of textbooks in Ukrainian, and beginner-level books in Ukrainian with "the Poles' political interests" and the "separatist intentions of some of the Little Russians".
The Circular also stated that "no separate Little Russian language ever existed, doesn't exist, and couldn't exist", and that the Little Russian is nothing more than the "General Russian" spoiled by Polish influence.
The Circular ordered the Censorship Committees to ban the publication of religious texts, educational texts, and beginner-level books in Ukrainian, but permitted publication of literature in that language.
Further restrictions on Ukrainian language were placed by the Ems Ukaz in 1876, which completely prohibited the usage of the language in open print.
Der Pilger (The Pilgrim; known until 1960 as Der christliche Pilger, meaning The Christian Pilgrim) is the weekly newsletter of the Roman Catholic diocese of Speyer in Germany.
It was founded on 1 January 1848, making it the oldest diocesan newspaper in Germany and older than the Osservatore Romano.
The paper founded the "Die Aktion Silbermöve" fundraising campaign in 1960 and this produces around 1&nbsp;million Euros annually.
The paper reports on church life in the diocese and international events in the Catholic Church, along with comment on news and political events from a Catholic perspective.
It also includes religious texts such as prayers and interpretations of the week's scripture readings.
The entertainment section offers book and theatre reviews, short stories, puzzles and recipes.
Weekday Religious Education is a released-time Christian education program for public school students in the United States.
The program is administered during school hours, but by law must be conducted outside school property.
Weekday Religious Education classes are offered in school districts in several states, most of them rural.
In 1914, the Superintendent of Schools in Gary, Indiana requested that local ministers teach principles of Christianity to school students during the school day.
In 1946, Erwin L. Shaver wrote an article entitled, "The Movement for Weekday Religious Education" for the journal, Religious Education In 1948, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in re: McCollum v. Board of Education that religious classes held on public school property are unconstitutional.
However, classes continued in locations where the program was held outside school grounds.
The Supreme Court later ruled, in re: Zorach v. Clauson, that religious classes held outside school grounds, but during the school day, did meet constitutional requirements dictating the separation of church and state.
Weekday Religious Education classes are currently offered in several school districts in the United States.
The following is a partial list, sorted by state: In Fort Wayne, Indiana, classes are offered to children in the third, fourth, and fifth grades.
Classes in the third grade focus upon introducing students to a "personal relationship with Jesus Christ".
Third graders also learn about "Hebrew traditions", among which are "Sabbath, the Greatest Commandment, synagogue school and Jesus visiting Jerusalem".
Fourth grade classes incorporate lessons about the patriarchs and other figures from the Old Testament.
In the fifth grade, students are taught that the Bible is the "inspired Word of God."
Classes in Fort Wayne, Indiana use the Good News Bible.
Other Indiana programs are supported by the Gideons, International and use the New King James Version of the Bible.
Some programs teach Creation Science, Old and New Testament Survey and the Life of Christ as young as second grade.
Dahlia Lithwick, in her article for Slate magazine, summarized several criticisms of the Weekday Religious Education program as administered at that time in Staunton, Virginia.
Among these criticisms is that communities in which WRE classes are taught ostracize those students who elect to opt out of the program; that WRE classes subtract from classroom time, making education mandated by federal programs such as the No Child Left Behind Act more difficult; that WRE inherently discriminates against those who aren't Christians; and that WRE promotes an Evangelical denominational or sectarian viewpoint.
John Courtney Murray SJ (September 12, 1904&nbsp;– August 16, 1967), was an American Jesuit priest and theologian, who was especially known for his efforts to reconcile Catholicism and religious pluralism, particularly focusing on the relationship between religious freedom and the institutions of a democratically structured modern state.
During the Second Vatican Council, he played a key role in persuading the assembly of the Catholic bishops to adopt the Council's ground-breaking Declaration on Religious Liberty, Dignitatis humanae.
John Courtney Murray was born in New York City in 1904 and entered the New York province of the Society of Jesus in 1920.
He studied Classics and Philosophy at Boston College, receiving bachelor's and master's degrees in 1926 and 1927 respectively.
Following his graduation, he travelled to the Philippines where he taught Latin and English literature at the Ateneo de Manila.
He returned to the United States in 1930 and was ordained a Roman Catholic priest in 1933.
He pursued further studies at the Gregorian University in Rome and completed a doctorate in sacred theology in 1937.
Returning to the United States, he taught Catholic trinitarian theology at the Jesuit theologate in Woodstock, Maryland and, in 1941, was named editor of the Jesuit journal Theological Studies.
He held both positions until his death in Queens, New York in 1967.
He died of a heart attack.
While his background and training suggest a heavily theoretical bent, Murray became a leading public figure, and his work dealt primarily with the tensions between religion and public life.
His best-known book, We Hold These Truths: Catholic Reflections on the American Proposition  collects a number of his essays on such topics.
In his capacity as both representative of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops and consultant to the religious affairs section of the Allied High Commission, he helped draft and promote the 1943 Declaration on World Peace, an interfaith statement of principles for post-war reconstruction, and successfully recommended a close constitutional arrangement between the restored German state and the Church, including the dispersal of state-collected taxes to German churches.
Following a lectureship at Yale University in 1951–1952, he collaborated on a project with Robert Morrison MacIver of Columbia University to assess academic freedom and religious education in American public universities.
Ultimately, the proposal argued for tax aid to private schools and for sympathetic exposure of religious faiths in public schools.
The project was both nationally influential and personally formative, as it deepened Murray's understanding of and esteem for American Constitutional law.
With his increasingly public role, several American bishops consulted Murray on legal issues such as censorship and birth control.
He argued against what he saw as the reactionary and coercive practices of some Catholic bishops, instead advocating participation in substantive public debate, which he suggested offered a better appeal to public virtue.
Instead of civic coercion, he argued, presenting moral opinions in the context of public discourse enabled Americans to both deepen their moral commitments and safeguard the 'genius' of American freedoms.
From 1958 to 1962 he served at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, applying just war criteria to Soviet-U.S. relations.
In 1966, prompted by the Vietnam War, he was appointed to serve on Lyndon Johnson's presidential commission that reviewed Selective Service classifications.
He supported the allowance of a classification for those opposed on moral grounds to some (though not all) wars&nbsp;— a recommendation not accepted by the Selective Service Administration.
Murray’s public involvement was complicated by the Catholic doctrines of salvation and church/state relations.
While in 1940 Murray himself had argued in support of the claim that there was no salvation outside the Church, by 1944, his endorsement of full cooperation with other theists led to Catholic complaints that he was endangering American Catholic faith.
At the time, many Catholics recommended minimal cooperation with non-Catholics for fear that lay Catholic faith would be weakened.
Similarly, he advocated religious freedom as defined and protected by the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.
Murray eventually argued that Catholic teaching on church/state relations was inadequate to the moral functioning of contemporary peoples.
The Anglo-American West, he claimed, had developed a fuller truth about human dignity, namely the responsibility of all citizens to assume moral control over their own religious beliefs, wresting control from paternalistic states.
For Murray this truth was an "intention of nature" or a new dictate of natural law philosophy.
Murray’s claim that a new moral truth had emerged outside the church led to conflict with Cardinal Alfredo Ottaviani, pro-secretary of the Vatican Holy Office, and the eventual Vatican demand, in 1954, that Murray cease writing on religious freedom and stop publication of his two latest articles on the issue.
In spite of his silencing, Murray continued to write privately on religious liberties and submitted his works to Rome, all of which were rejected.
He was finally invited to the second (but not the first) session of the Second Vatican Council in 1963, in which he drafted the third and fourth versions of what eventually became the council's endorsement of religious freedom, Dignitatis humanae personae, in 1965.
After the council, he continued writing on the issue, claiming that the arguments offered by the final decree were inadequate even if the affirmation of religious freedom was unequivocal.
Murray then turned to questions of how the Church might arrive at new theological doctrines.
If Catholics were to arrive at new truths about God, he argued, they would have to do so in conversation "on a footing of equality" with non-Catholics and atheists.
He suggested greater reforms, including a restructuring of the Church, which he saw as having overdeveloped its notion of authority and hierarchy at the expense of the bonds of love that more foundationally ought to define Christian living.
In academic discussions of organized religion, the term form is sometimes used to describe prescriptions or norms on religious practice.
Forms in Christianity are mostly familiarly dictates of church authority or tradition (e.g.
church government, liturgy, doctrine).
However, the term is used by some authors to refer to a broader category that includes other patterns of religious practice.
Most notably, Christian scholar D. G. Hart uses this term to compare and contrast the practices of evangelical Protestants and what he calls "confessional Protestants" (for example Anglicans and most Lutherans).
He argues that the confessionals follow forms that are dictated by church authority or tradition, and calls these forms churchly forms.
On the other hand, noting the resistance to such central authority and tradition among evangelicals, he labels the forms of these denominations parachurchly forms, as they are often dictated by parachurch organizations and other influences beyond the direct control of any particular church.
There is little debate over whether confessional Protestants use forms.
However, whether similar devices are used by evangelicals is hotly contested.
Much of the opposition comes from within evangelicalism itself, due to the antiritualistic tendencies of many denominations.
Other scholars of religion have however noted the tendency toward certain accepted patterns in religious practice.
Robert Oden notes that this is true of nearly all religions, not just Christianity, and that it is true even of those movements that claim to be antiritualistic.
If then we accept the broader usage of the word "form", there are a number of other forms besides the ones noted above.
These include the products of what has, perhaps cynically, been called "Christian entrepreneurship", such as contemporary Christian music (and non-denominational praise songs), Christian T-shirts, and non-denominational book and video resources.
Freedom of religion in Iran is marked by Iranian culture, major religion and politics.
Iran is officially and in practice an Islamic republic—the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran mandates that the official religion of Iran is Shia Islam and the Twelver Ja'fari school, and also mandates that other Islamic schools are to be accorded full respect, and their followers are free to act in accordance with their own jurisprudence in performing their religious rites.
Iran recognizes Zoroastrian, Jewish, and Christian religious minorities, among others.
The continuous presence of the country's pre-Islamic, non-Muslim communities, such as Zoroastrians, Jews, and Christians, had accustomed the population to the participation of non-Muslims in society.
However, despite official recognition of such minorities by Iran's government, the actions of the government create a "threatening atmosphere for some religious minorities".
The country has a total area of approximately 1,636,000&nbsp;km² (632,000&nbsp;mi²), and its population is approximately 69 million.
In 2006, the population was approximately 98 percent Muslim, of which an estimated 89% were Shi'a and 9% Sunni (mostly Turkomen, Arabs, Baluchs, and Kurds living in the southwest, southeast, and northwest).
Although there are no official statistics of the size of the Sufi Muslim population, some reports estimated between two to five million people practice Sufism compared to approximately 100,000 before 1979.
Bahá'ís, Christians, Zoroastrians, Mandaeans, and Jews combined constitute approximately two percent of the population.
The largest non-Muslim minority is the Bahá'í community, which has an estimated 300,000 to 350,000 adherents throughout the country.
Estimates on the size of the Jewish community vary from 20,000 to 30,000.
These figures represent a substantial reduction from the estimated 75,000 to 80,000 Jews who resided in the country prior to the 1979 Iranian Revolution.
According to U.N. figures, there were approximately 300,000 Christians, the majority of whom are ethnic Armenians.
Unofficial estimates indicated an Assyrian Christian population of approximately 10,000.
There also were Protestant denominations, including evangelical churches.
The Mandaean Sabaeans, a community whose religion draws on pre-Christian gnostic beliefs, numbered approximately 5,000 to 10,000 persons, with members residing primarily in Khuzestan in the southwest.
As of 2006, there were indications that members of all religious minorities are emigrating at a higher rate than previously.
Although the Constitution states that "the investigation of individuals' beliefs is forbidden" and that "no one may be molested or taken to task simply for holding a certain belief," the adherents of religions not specifically protected under the Constitution do not enjoy freedom of activity.
This situation most directly affects adherents of the Bahá'í Faith.
The Government regards the Bahá'í community, whose faith originally arose from a movement within Islam, as a misguided or wayward "sect."
In 2004 the Expediency Council approved appending a note to Article 297 of the 1991 Islamic Punishments Act, authorizing collection of equal "blood money" (diyeh) for the death of Muslims and non-Muslims.
All women and Baha'i men were excluded from the equalization provisions of the bill.
According to law, Baha'i blood or anyones' who marries or helps a Bahá'í or gets involved with them is considered Mobah, meaning it can be spilled with impunity.
The Government fuels anti-Bahá'í sentiment in the country.
Government officials have stated that the Bahá'ís are not a religious minority, but a political organization which was associated with the Shah's regime, is against the Iranian Revolution and engages in espionage activities.
However, government officials reportedly nonetheless have stated that, as individuals, all Bahá'ís are entitled to their beliefs and are protected under other articles of the Constitution as citizens.
The Iranian representative to the United Nations tried several times, albeit unsuccessfully, between 1982 and 1984 to convince the United Nations diplomatic community that the Bahá'í Faith is a politicized organization with a record of criminal activism against the Iranian government.
The United Nations responded to the Iranian government's accusations by stating that there has been no evidence of Iran's claims and that the Bahá'í community in Iran professes its allegiance to the state.
The United Nations pointed to the Bahá'í teaching of obedience to the government of one's country and stated that any involvement in any subversive acts against the government would be antithetical to precepts of the Bahá'í religion.
The United Nations also stated that if the Iranian government did acknowledge that the Bahá'í Faith is a religion, it would be an admission that freedom of religion does not apply to all in Iran and that it is not abiding by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International Covenants on Human Rights to which it is a signatory.
Unlike the Bahá'í Faith, Judaism is a recognized religion in Iran.
Despite Iran's official distrust of the Jewish country of Israel, the government does not directly attack Judaism itself.
The central feature of the country’s Islamic republican system is rule by a "religious jurisconsult."
The Supreme Leader of Islamic Republic controls the most important levers of power; he is chosen by a group of 86 religious scholars.
All acts of the Majles (legislative body) must be reviewed for conformity with Islamic law and principles by the Council of Guardians, which is composed of six clerics appointed by the Supreme Leader and six Muslim jurists (legal scholars) nominated by the Head of the Judiciary and elected by parliament.
Religious activity is monitored closely by the Ministry of Islamic Culture and Guidance and by the Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS).
Adherents of recognized religious minorities are not required to register individually with the Government; however, their community, religious, and cultural events and organizations, including schools, are monitored closely.
Registration of Bahá'ís is a police function.
Evangelical Christian groups have been pressured by government authorities to compile and submit membership lists for their congregations, but evangelicals have resisted this demand.
Non-Muslim owners of grocery shops are required to indicate their religious affiliation on the fronts of their shops.
By law and practice, religious minorities can be elected to a representative body or to hold senior government or military positions, and have 5 of a total 270 seats in the majlis reserved for religious minorities.
Three of these seats are reserved for members of the Christian faith, including two seats for the country's Armenian Christians, and one for Assyrians.
There is also one seat for a member of the Jewish faith, and one for a member of the Zoroastrian faith.
While members of the Sunni Muslim minority do not have reserved seats in the majlis, they are allowed to serve in the body.
Sunni members tend to come from the larger Sunni communities.
Members of religious minorities are allowed to vote.
All of the minority religious groups, including Sunni Muslims, are barred from being elected president.
Members of religious minorities, are supported in their pursuit of serving in the judiciary and security services.
All applicants for public sector employment are screened, irrespective of their faith, for their adherence to and knowledge of Islam, and members of religious minorities can serve in lower ranks of government employment.
The constitution states that the country's army must be administered by individuals who are committed to the objectives of the Iranian constitution, regardless of faith.
No religious minorities are exempt from military service.
Members of religious minorities with a college education could serve as an officer during their mandatory military service but could not be a career military officer.
University applicants are required to pass an examination in Islamic theology, which limits the access of most religious minorities to higher education, although all public school students, including non-Muslims, must study Shia Islam.
Applicants for public sector employment similarly are screened for their knowledge of Islam.
The Government allows recognized religious minorities to conduct the religious education of their adherents.
This includes separate and privately funded Zoroastrian, Jewish, and Christian schools but does not include Bahá'í schools.
The Ministry of Education, which imposes certain curriculum requirements, supervises these schools.
With few exceptions, the directors of such private schools must be Muslim.
Attendance at the schools is not mandatory for recognized religious minorities.
All textbooks used in course work, including religious texts, must be approved for use by the Ministry of Education.
Religious texts in non-Persian languages require approval by the authorities for use.
Recognized religious minorities could provide religious instruction in non-Persian languages, but such texts required approval by the authorities.
This approval requirement sometimes imposed significant translation expenses on minority communities.
The condition imposed began from 1981 and were reiterated in the fall of 1983 - the Ministry of Education and Training ordered that religious education must be done in Persian, a text written by the MET must be taught in all registered religious minority schools, schools must seek special permission for any ceremonies, and in keeping with society-wide restrictions, female teachers and students must observe Islamic dress code including Hijab when necessary (this last was re-inforced in 1985.
)< The textbook the MET wrote on the minority religions was called Talimat-e Maxhadi Vizheh-ye Aqaliathaye Mazhabi - (Kalimi, Zarthoshti, Masihi); Religious Studies Specifically for Religious Miniorities: (Jews, Zoroastrians, Christians.)
The course was taught by Muslim teachers at least 3 hrs/wk.
All the religious minorities objected to the text in 1982 claiming the book was a violation of Article 13 guaranteeing freedom in religious teaching, that there were overt and covert passages from the Quran, and lack of any qualifications of the anonymous author(s) rather than members of the religious minorities writing about their own religions.
The situation has moderated for the Armenians significantly by 1995/6.
There was also compromise of sorts allowed both Hebrew and Persian language use in Jewish schools.
Recognized religious minorities are allowed by the Government to establish community centers and certain cultural, social, sports, or charitable associations that they finance themselves.
This does not apply to the Bahá'í community, which since 1983 has been denied the right to assemble officially or to maintain administrative institutions.
Because the Bahá'í Faith has no clergy, the denial of the right to form such institutions and elect officers threatens its existence in the country.
Muslim men are free to marry non-Muslim women; a non-Muslim woman automatically becomes Muslim when the marriage takes place.
However, marriages between Muslim women and non-Muslim men are not recognized unless the man shows proof that he has converted to Islam.
If the child of a non-Muslim family converts to Islam, he or she inherits all the wealth of the family.
The Government is highly suspicious of any proselytizing of Muslims by non-Muslims and can be harsh in its response, in particular against Bahá'ís, Sunni Muslims and evangelical Christians.
The Government does not ensure the right of citizens to change or renounce their religious faith.
Apostasy, specifically conversion from Islam, can be punishable by death.
A summary of 2013 incidents of prison sentences, fines and punishments showed "79 religious minorities were sentenced to a total of 3620 months in prison, 200 months probation, 75 lashings and 41,030,000,000 rials in fines.
In this area, 49% of the cases involved Baha'i minorities, 16% Christian and Dervish and 14% Sunni minority.
Arrests of religious minorities increased by 36% in relation to last year."
The Bahá'í Faith originated in Iran during the 1860s.
The Baha'is believe their prophet to be the Messiah for this era.
Initially it attracted a wide following among Shi’a clergy.
The political and religious authorities of that time joined to suppress the movement, and since then the hostility of the Shi’a clergy to the Bahá'í Faith has remained strong.
Bahá'ís are considered apostates by the Shi'a clergy because of their claim to a valid religious revelation subsequent to that of Mohammed.
The Bahá'í Faith is defined by the Government as a political "sect," historically linked to the Pahlavi regime and, hence, counterrevolutionary, even though one of the tenets of the Bahá'í Faith is non-involvement in partisan politics.
Bahá'ís may not teach or practice their faith or maintain links with coreligionists abroad.
The fact that the Bahá'í world headquarters (established by the founder of the Bahá'í Faith in the 19th century, in what was then Ottoman-controlled Palestine) is situated in what is now the state of Israel, allows the Iranian government to charge the Bahá'ís with "espionage on behalf of Zionism," in particular when caught communicating with or sending monetary contributions to the Bahá'í headquarters.
Broad restrictions on Bahá'ís appear to be aimed at destroying them as a community.
Bahá'ís repeatedly have been offered relief from mistreatment in exchange for recanting their faith.
Bahá'í cemeteries, holy places, historical sites, administrative centers, and other assets were seized shortly after the 1979 revolution.
None of the properties have been returned, and many have been destroyed.
Bahá'ís are not allowed to bury and honor their dead in keeping with their religious tradition.
They are permitted access only to areas of wasteland that the Government designates for their use, and are not allowed to mark the graves.
Many historic Bahá'í gravesites have been desecrated or destroyed.
In 2000 in the city of Abadeh, a Revolutionary Guard officer bulldozed a Bahá'í cemetery with 22 graves.
In what appeared to be a hopeful development, in 2002 the Government offered the Tehran community a piece of land for use as a cemetery.
However, the land was in the desert, with no access to water, making it impossible to perform Bahá'í mourning rituals.
In addition the Government stipulated that no markers be put on individual graves and that no mortuary facilities be built on the site, making it impossible to perform a proper burial.
Bahá'í group meetings and religious education, which often take place in private homes and offices, are curtailed severely.
Public and private universities continue to deny admittance to Bahá'í students, a particularly demoralizing blow to a community that traditionally has placed a high value on education.
Denial of access to higher education appears aimed at the eventual impoverishment of the Bahá'í community.
Bahá'ís regularly are denied compensation for injury or criminal victimization.
Government authorities claim that only Muslim plaintiffs are eligible for compensation in these circumstances.
In 1993 the UNSR reported the existence of a government policy directive regarding the Bahá'ís.
According to the directive, the Supreme Revolutionary Council instructed government agencies to block the progress and development of the Bahá'í community, expel Bahá'í students from universities, cut Bahá'í links with groups outside the country, restrict employment of Bahá'ís, and deny Bahá'ís "positions of influence," including in education.
The Government claims that the directive is a forgery.
However, it appears to be an accurate reflection of current government practice designed to eradicate slowly the Bahá'í community.
In September 2001, the Ministry of Justice issued a report that reiterated that government policy continued to aim at the eventual elimination of the Bahá'ís as a community.
It stated in part that Bahá'ís would only be permitted to enroll in schools if they did not identify themselves as Bahá'ís, and that Bahá'ís preferably should be enrolled in schools that have a strong and imposing religious ideology.
The report also stated that Bahá'ís must be expelled from universities, either in the admission process or during the course of their studies, once it becomes known that they are Bahá'ís.
While in recent years the Government has eased some restrictions, thereby enabling Bahá'ís to obtain food-ration booklets and send their children to public elementary and secondary schools, the prohibition against the admission of Bahá'ís to universities remains.
Thousands of Bahá'ís dismissed from government jobs in the early 1980s receive no unemployment benefits and have been required to repay the Government for salaries or pensions received from the first day of employment.
Those unable to do so face prison sentences.
Iran has taken some positive steps in recognizing the rights of Bahá'ís, as well as other religious minorities.
In November 1999, President Khatami publicly stated that no one in the country should be persecuted because of his or her religious beliefs.
He added that he would defend the civil rights of all citizens, regardless of their beliefs or religion.
Subsequently the Expediency Council approved the "Right of Citizenship" bill, affirming the social and political rights of all citizens and their equality before the law.
In February 2000, following approval of the bill, the head of the judiciary issued a circular letter to all registry offices throughout the country that provided for any couple to be registered as husband and wife without being required to state their religious affiliation.
The measure effectively permits the registration of Bahá'í marriages in the country.
Previously Bahá'í marriages were not recognized by the Government, leaving Bahá'í women open to charges of prostitution.
Thus children of Bahá'í marriages were not recognized as legitimate and therefore denied inheritance rights.
According to a US panel, attacks on Bahá'ís in Iran have increased since Mahmoud Ahmadinejad became president as well as Sunni Muslims.
On May 14, 2008, members of an informal body known as the Friends that oversaw the needs of the Bahá'í community in Iran were arrested and taken to Evin prison.
Officers from the Ministry of Intelligence in Tehran searched and raided the homes of the six people in the early hours of May 14.
The arrest of the six follow the detention of another Bahá'í leader in March, who was originally taken to answer questions relating to the burial of a Bahá'i in the Bahá'í cemetery in Mashad.
They have not been charged, and are prisoners of conscience.
The Iran Human Rights Documentation Center has stated that they are concerned for the safety of the Bahá'ís, and that the recent events are similar to the disappearance of 25 Bahá'í leaders in the early 1980s.
The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom has stated that it fears that the "development signals a return to the darkest days of repression in Iran in the 1980s when Baha'is were routinely arrested, imprisoned, and executed."
While Jews are a recognized religious minority, allegations of official discrimination are frequent.
The Government’s anti-Israel policies, along with a perception among radical Muslim elements that all Jewish citizens support Zionism and the State of Israel, create a threatening atmosphere for the small Jewish community.
Jewish leaders reportedly are reluctant to draw attention to official mistreatment of their community due to fear of government reprisal.
Persecution and discrimination has increased among the government and society since the Revolution in 1979.
On the eve of Passover 1998, 13 Iranian Jewish men were arrested on charges of espionage.
The United States and Israel both demanded their release.
Iran accused the men of spying for "world arrogance" (being the U.S.) and the "Zionist regime" (being Israel).
The conviction is highly doubted by the rest of the world.
In principle with some exceptions, there appears to be little restriction or interference with the religious practice of Judaism.
The Government reportedly allows the teaching of Hebrew, recognizing that it is necessary for Jewish religious practice.
Jews are permitted to obtain passports and to travel outside the country.
According to the U.N. High Commission for Refugees Background Paper on Iran, the Mandaeans are regarded as Christians, and are included among the country’s three recognized religious minorities.
However, Mandaeans regard themselves not as Christians, but as adherents of a religion that predates Christianity in both belief and practice.
Mandaeans enjoyed official support as a distinct religion prior to the revolution, but their legal status as a religion since then has been the subject of debate in the Majles and never has been clarified.
According to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States, since 1979 more than 200 Bahá'ís have been killed and 15 have disappeared and are presumed dead.
The Government continued to imprison and detain Bahá'ís based on their religious beliefs.
The Government appears to adhere to a practice of keeping a small number of Bahá'ís in arbitrary detention, some at risk of execution, at any given time.
There were four Bahá'ís reported to be in prison for practicing their faith at the end of the period covered by this report, two facing life sentences and two facing sentences of 15 years.
In addition the Government appears to engage in harassment of the Bahá'í community by arresting Bahá'ís arbitrarily, charging them, and then releasing them, often without dropping the charges against them.
Those with charges still pending against them fear arrest at any time.
Two Bahá'ís, Sirus Zabihi-Moghaddam and Hadayat Kashefi-Najafabadi, were tried in 1998 and later sentenced to death by an Islamic Revolutionary Court in Mashad for practicing their faith.
In 2000 the sentences were reduced to 7 and 5 years respectively.
Kashefi-Najafabadi was released in October 2001, after serving 4 years of his sentence.
Zabihi-Moghaddam, who originally was arrested in November 1997, was released in June 2002.
The Government continued to imprison and detain Bahá'ís based on their religious beliefs.
Manuchehr Khulusi was arrested in June 1999 while visiting fellow Bahá'ís in the town of Birjand, and was imprisoned until his release in May 2000.
During his imprisonment, Khulusi was interrogated, beaten, held in solitary confinement, and denied access to his lawyer.
The charges brought against him remain unknown, but they were believed to be related to his faith.
The Islamic Revolutionary Court in Mashhad held a 2-day trial in September 1999 and sentenced Khulusi to death in February 2000.
Despite Khulusi’s release, it is unclear if the conviction and death sentence against him still stand.
The property rights of Bahá'ís generally are disregarded.
Since 1979 large numbers of private and business properties belonging to Bahá'ís have been confiscated.
During the period covered by this report, 14 Bahá'í homes were seized and handed over to an agency of Supreme Leader Khamenei.
Authorities reportedly confiscated Bahá'í properties in Kata and forced several families to leave their homes and farmlands.
Authorities also imprisoned some farmers, and did not permit others to harvest their crops.
In 2000 authorities in Tehran, Isfahan, and Shiraz reportedly also confiscated eight buildings belonging to Bahá'ís.
In one instance, a woman from Isfahan who legally traveled abroad found that her home had been confiscated when she returned home.
During the period covered by the report, the Government also seized private homes in which Bahá'í youth classes were held despite the owners having proper ownership documents.
In 1999 three Bahá'í homes in Yazd and one in Arbakan were confiscated because their owners were Bahá'ís.
The Government’s seizure of Bahá'í personal property, as well as its denial of Bahá'í access to education and employment, are eroding the economic base of the Bahá'í community.
In 1998 after a nationwide raid of more than 500 Bahá'í homes and offices, as well as numerous arrests, the authorities closed the Bahá'í Institute of Higher Learning.
Also known as the "Open University," the Institute was established by the Bahá'í community shortly after the revolution to offer higher educational opportunities to Bahá'í students who had been denied access to the country’s high schools and universities.
It has become somewhat easier for Bahá'ís to obtain passports in order to travel abroad.
In addition some Iranian embassies abroad do not require applicants to state a religious affiliation.
In such cases, it is easier for Bahá'ís to renew passports.
Nevertheless, in February 2001, the Government denied visas to foreigners in the Bahá'í delegation to the Asia-Pacific Regional Preparatory Conference for the World Conference on Racism, held in Tehran.
The delegation was composed of American, Japanese, South Korean, and Indian nationals.
Furthermore, a confidential letter sent on October 29, 2005 by the Chairman of the Command Headquarters of the Armed Forced in Iran states that the Supreme Leader of Iran, Ayatollah Khamenei has instructed the Command Headquarters to identify people who adhere to the Bahá'í Faith and to monitor their activities and gather any and all information about the members of the Bahá'í Faith.
The letter was brought to the attention of the international community by Asma Jahangir, the Special Rapporteur of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights on freedom of religion or belief, in a March 20, 2006 press release.
In the press release the Special Rapporteur states that she "is highly concerned by information she has received concerning the treatment of members of the Bahá'í community in Iran."
She further states that "The Special Rapporteur is concerned that this latest development indicates that the situation with regard to religious minorities in Iran is, in fact, deteriorating."
The authorities are "vigilant in curbing proselytizing activities by evangelical Christians" including when services are conducted in Persian, but some sources indicate that Bibles and religious material on Persian are freely available to Iranians.
Status related to this issues can be hard to determine because of poor relationships between Iran and other states, such as the United States, and due to Iran's strict controls of media and information.
For example, Youcef Nadarkhani is an Jammiat-e Rabbani (Christian) pastor who was given a death sentence for apostasy, though eventually he was released after winning an appeal.
Nevertheless, he was sentenced to three years in prison for proselytizing.
Iran has denied many components of Nadarkhani's story, and has even described such claims by Western media as "propaganda".
Blasphemy law in Iran is used as a weapon against Christians and Christianity within Iran's borders.
Some issues dealing with Christianity in Iran deal more directly with the Armenian ethnic minorities.
For example, in early 1983 the MET specifically requested that the Armenian religious schools teach religion in Persian and time allocated to the Armenian languages must be reduced or eliminated.
While the community responded to these orders issues raised in discussions included if the Armenians could speak/teach their own language other minorities would demand the same but also if Persian was used it would make proselytization easier as facility with Persian language use of religious issues improved.
At the end of the 1983 academic year the MET requested the questions that were to be included in the final exam and the questions had to be sent in Persian and were ordered to be used in Persian as the final exam.
Most fifth grade students refused to take the test and 3rd grade students handed in blank pages.
The authorities then failed all the students.
Some schools ignored the demands on languages, others did limit teaching to 2 hrs and others removed it entirely.
Some continued religious classes and some dropped them all together.
Observance of these rules on Armenian language teaching was most strict in Tehran while 6 to 8 hrs per week were common beyond.
However, in 1995 the limit on languages was raised from 2 hrs to 5 hrs per week in Tehran as well.
Circa 1996 a settlement was reached; during the first two months of each school year, the ministry-provided Persian book on religious ethics is taught in Armenian schools while Armenian-approved religious lessons are taught in Armenian for the rest of the year.
This was not a totally satisfactory settlement of the issue for both sides, but it settled the issue.
In 1976, the Christian population numbered 168,593 people, mostly Armenians.
Due to the Iran–Iraq War in the 1980s and the dissolution of the Soviet Union in the 1990s, almost half of the Armenians migrated to the newly independent Republic of Armenia.
However, the opposite trend has occurred since 2000, and the number of Christians with Iranian citizenship increased to 109,415 in 2006 and 117,704 in 2011.
According national Statistical centre Christians were fastest growing religion in Iran during 1996-2006 period (+38.9%), and second fastest during 2006-2011 period (+7.6%, after Zoroastrianism).
At the same time, significant immigration of Assyrians from Iraq has been recorded due to massacres and harassment in post-Saddam Iraq.
However, most of those Assyrians in Iran do not have Iranian citizenship.
In 2008, the central office of the International Union of Assyrians was officially transferred to Iran after being hosted in the United States for more than four decades.
It is noted that the largest population of Jews in the Muslim world is in Iran.
In 1984 the government began to request religious affiliation on questionnaires for passports.
In contrast to other registered religious minorities starting in 1983, Jewish families were prevented from traveling as a group and if one member of the family traveled then the another family member's passport was held.
Regardless, thousands of Jews had emigrated in the first eight months of 1987 through Austria.
Perhaps half the Jews left Iran leaving about 30,000 Jews by 1986.
Some may have returned in the late 1980s.
Generally the overall economic position has deteriorated significantly post revolution.
It is estimated that a minimum of 13 Jews have been executed by Iran since the country's revolution.
Of them include two men (not of the ones written above) hanged in 1997 for allegedly spying for Israel and the United States; as well as businessman Ruhollah Kadkhodah-Zadeh who was hanged in prison without a public charge or legal proceeding, apparently for assisting Jews to emigrate.
The Special Clerical Court (SCC) system, established in 1987 to investigate offenses and crimes committed by clerics and which the Supreme Leader oversees directly, is not provided for in the constitution and operates outside the domain of the judiciary.
In particular, critics alleged that the clerical courts were used to prosecute certain clerics for expressing controversial ideas and for participating in activities outside the area of religion, including journalism.
During the latter part of 2000, a Special Clerical Court began the trial of Hojatoleslam Hassan Yousefi Eshkevari, a cleric who participated in a conference in Berlin on Iran, on charges of apostasy, "corruption on earth," "declaring war on God," and "denial of basic religious principles," which potentially carry the death penalty.
Eshkevari has called for more liberal interpretations of Islamic law in certain areas.
The verdict was not announced, but, according to Amnesty International, Eshkevari widely was reported to have been sentenced to death.
In November 2001, following domestic and international criticism, his sentence reportedly was reduced to 30 months' imprisonment and removal of his status as a cleric.
On February 6, 2005, the special clerical court agreed to his conditional release (parole); he had served two thirds of his seven-year sentence and was therefore eligible for parole under the law.
Independent newspapers and magazines have been closed, and leading publishers and journalists were imprisoned on charges of hate speech and "insulting Islam" and sparking revolutionary sentiments whilst "calling into question the Islamic foundation of the Republic."
In 2002 academic Hashem Aghajari was sentenced to death for blasphemy against the Prophet Muhammed, based on a speech in which he challenged Muslims not to blindly follow the clergy, provoking an international and domestic outcry.
In 2003 his death sentence was revoked by the Supreme Court, but the case was sent back to the lower court for retrial.
He was retried on charges that did include revolutionary incitement and was sentenced to five years' imprisonment, two of which were suspended, and five years of additional "deprivation of social right" (meaning that he could not teach or write books or articles).
His time served was counted towards his three-year sentence; the court converted the remainder of the time to a fine.
He was released on bail in 2004.
Zoroastrian served as the national- or state religion of a significant portion of the Iranian people for many centuries before it was gradually marginalized by Islam from the 7th century onwards.
The political power of the pre-Islamic Iranian dynasties lent Zoroastrians immense prestige in ancient times, and some of its leading doctrines were adopted by other religious systems.
There are no official reports of government harassment of the Zoroastrian community to date.
Unofficial reports of discrimination in employment and education has come up, but are by no means frequent.
Zoroastrians are free to make, without government interference, their annual pilgrimage to one of the holiest sites of their faith, the temple of Chak-Chak (near the city of Yazd).
The continuous activity of the country’s pre-Islamic, non-Muslim communities, such as Zoroastrians, Jews, and Christians, has accustomed the population to the presence of non-Muslims in society.
However, actions of the conservative parts of society and the government create a threatening atmosphere for some religious minorities.
For a Christian, Jew or Zoroastrian there is constant pressure at school to convert.
The Government's anti-Israel policies, along with a perception among radical Muslims that all Jewish citizens supported Zionism and the state of Israel, created a hostile atmosphere for the small community.
For example, in 2005 many newspapers celebrated the one-hundredth anniversary of the anti-Semitic publication Protocols of the Elders of Zion.
Jewish leaders reportedly were reluctant to draw attention to official mistreatment of their community due to fear of government reprisal.
The U.S. government's heavy involvement in the MIddle East has made Iran, as well as many other countries in the region, wary of the U.S. Government's intentions.
The U.S. has historically spoken quite harshly against the Iran's aims to Iran's nuclear program.
U.S. sanctions as well as the U.N. and nongovernmental organization (NGO) efforts, to stop Iran's nuclear problem have been endured by the country for many years.
Since 1999 the Secretary of State has designated Iran as a "Country of Particular Concern" (CPC) under the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 for its particularly egregious violations of religious freedom.
These sentiments are often seen by Iran as an attempt to subvert the nation and its interests.
The U.S. State Department spokesman on numerous occasions has addressed the situation of the Bahá'í and Jewish communities.
The U.S. Government has encouraged other governments to make similar statements and has urged those governments to raise the issue of religious freedom in discussions with the Iranian Government.
Kersey Graves (November 21, 1813 in Brownsville, Pennsylvania – September 4, 1883 in Richmond, Indiana) was a skeptic, atheist, rationalist, spiritualist, reformist writer, who was popular on the American freethought circuit of the late 19th century.
Graves was born in Brownsville, Pennsylvania.
His parents were Quakers, and as a young man he followed them in their observance, later moving to the Hicksite wing of Quakerism.
According to one source, Graves did not attend school for more than three or four months in his life, but another source says that he received an "academical education", and at the age of 19 was teaching in a school at Richmond, a career he was to follow for more than twenty years.
He was an advocate of Abolitionism was also interested in language reform, and became involved with a number of radical freethinkers within Quakerism.
In August 1844, he joined a group of about fifty utopian settlers in Wayne County, Indiana.
In the same month, he was disowned by his Quaker meeting group due to his neglect of attendance, and also setting up a rival group.
The groups he was associated with later dabbled in mesmerism and spiritualism.
In July 1845, Graves married the Quaker, Lydia Michiner, at Goschen Meeting House, in Zanesfield, Logan County, Ohio, and they later had five children at their home in Harveysburg, Ohio.
They later moved back to Richmond and bought a farm.
The Goschen Meeting House was a centre of the Congregational Friends and were involved with Temperance and Peace, health reform, anti-slavery, women's rights and socialistic utopianism.
Graves' Quaker background conditioned him to the philosophy of the Inner light, whereby all clergy, creeds, and set liturgy in worship were irrelevant, and a hindrance to God's work.
This was intensified by Hicks's brand of Quakerism - Quietism - where an individual's spiritual life was most important and all outward manifestations were invalid.
The Congregational Friends were to the left of the Hicksites, and withdrew further from even Christianity and eventually a belief in God.
Graves died at his home just north of Richmond, Indiana on 4 September 1883.
Graves started with the belief that religion corrupted truth, and evolved into a writer claiming that all religious belief was false and that Jesus was fiction.
His published works include The Biography of Satan; Or, A Historical Exposition of the Devil and His Fiery Dominions.
Disclosing the Oriental Origin of the Belief in a Devil and Future Endless Punishment (1865; 4th ed.
1924), The World's Sixteen Crucified Saviors: Or, Christianity Before Christ (1875), and The Bible of Bibles; Or, Twenty-Seven "Divine Revelations": Containing a Description of Twenty-seven Bibles, and an Exposition of Two Thousand Biblical Errors in Science, History, Morals, Religion, and General Events; Also a Delineation of the Characters of the Principal Personages of the Christian Bible, and an Examination of Their Doctrines (4th ed., Boston: Colby & Rich, 1879).
His second book was his most famous and is still quoted by atheists and proponents of the Christ myth theory today despite criticism and dismissal by biblical scholars.
Graves is discussed in The Christ Conspiracy and Suns of God by Dorothy M. Murdock aka Acharya S. His shortcomings are discussed by Richard Carrier.
His writings could even have been utilized in The Da Vinci Code.
Tom Harpur used Graves as a source in The Pagan Christ and his other books on Jesus Christ in comparative mythology.
Atheist activist Madalyn Murray O'Hair was also an admirer of Graves' work.
Killester ( ) is a small, largely residential suburb of Dublin and lies on the Northside of the city.
Killester is located between Clontarf, Donnycarney, Raheny and Artane, and it falls within the postal districts of Dublin 3 or 5.
St. Anne's Park lies just beyond Killester on the Raheny / Clontarf side.
The area lies either side of the Howth Road, parts reaching as far as the Malahide Road, and is also served by Collins Avenue (East).
It has a rail station on the DART line (also on the Dublin-Belfast line but with no stopping of inter-city trains), and Dublin Bus routes 28, 29A, 31, 32A/B and 42A from the city centre go through the area.
The original Killester railway station opened on 1 October 1845 but closed after two years, re-opening on a new site about further north in 1923.
Killester lies within the Clontarf electoral district.
Killester has been noted in city and church documents going back many centuries, with variant spellings such as "Quillesra" (St. Laurence O'Toole) and "Kylestre", and was the site of both an early church and a later convent or monastery.
The name probably means "Church of (St.) Esra".
The ruins of a religious building still exist, and nearby there is a modern convent, with an attached school.
The manor of Killester was granted in the twelfth century to one Adrian le Brun.
In the fifteenth century it was owned by the White family to whom it passed by inheritance to the St Lawrence family, Barons and later Earls of Howth.
In the seventeenth century it belonged to the Cootes, a branch of the Earls of Mountrath.
Today there is a Roman Catholic Parish of Killester.
The current Roman Catholic church, on the Howth Road, opposite St. Brigid's National School began construction in 1924, and was consecrated in 1926.
For many years, it was Parish Church for the combined parish of Killester and Raheny.
It was lengthened in 1952, and a new Resource Centre was built alongside in the 2000s.
Notably, the church holds a reputed relic of St. Brigid, Ireland's secondary Patron Saint; the fragment of her skull was brought from Portugal in 1928.
Alongside the church is a parish resource centre, opened in autumn 2004, with multiple rooms and a coffee shop overlooking the church's peace garden.
The old Parish of Killester in the Church of Ireland (Parish of St. Brigid) was merged with Clontarf Parish in 1686 (church located on nearby Seafield Road), and the combined entity still serves the Anglican communities of both areas.
A new parish centre was built beside the parish church in the 2000s, to serve the needs of parishioners and, as capacity allows, the wider community of all faiths.
Killester has a shopping plaza with a range of shops and a pub, and is the site of a third-level institution, Killester College of Further Education, formerly St. Peter's College.
He holds a Ph.D. in Jewish philosophy and was the third President of Yeshiva University (YU), the first to be born in the United States.
He was a disciple of Rabbi Joseph B. Soloveitchik (one of Orthodoxy's most influential modern scholars), who ordained him at the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary (RIETS, the YU rabbinical school) in 1951.
In his youth, Lamm attended Mesivta Torah Vodaath in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
At Yeshiva College (YC, the men's undergraduate school of YU) he obtained a degree in chemistry in 1949, at which he excelled.
He was the secular studies valedictorian of his class.
He also attended a secular postgraduate college, the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn.
He considered a career in science, but was persuaded by Rabbi Dr. Samuel Belkin, the second President of Yeshiva University (successor of Rabbi Dr. Bernard Revel), to join the faculty at YU.
Lamm's grandfather was Rabbi Yehoshua Baumol (1880–1948) who authored the Responsa - Emek Halakha.
In that work, Rabbi Baumol cited several insights from his young grandson, and even included responsa to Lamm's questions.
Lamm spent 25 years as a pulpit rabbi.
He was appointed rabbi of the West Side Jewish Center (Congregation Beth Israel) in 1952, became assistant rabbi at the Jewish Center on the Upper West Side of Manhattan in 1958, then rabbi of the Jewish Center from 1959 to 1976.
He obtained his Ph.D. in 1966, and was elected President of Yeshiva University in August, 1976.
When he took over the institution he helped save it from looming bankruptcy and raised its endowments as well as its academic rating.
As a Modern Orthodox Jew, Lamm's theology somewhat resembles the corpus of classical rabbinic Jewish principles of faith.
The faith that he preaches and teaches is consistent with these teachings.
He believes that God exists, that God can reveal his will to mankind, and that the Torah (five books of Moses) is an exact transcription of God's revelation to Moses on Mount Sinai.
As an Orthodox Jew, he believes that Judaism's oral law, as recorded in the Mishnah and Talmud, represents an accurate and authoritative understanding of how God wants mankind to understand the Hebrew Bible.
In accordance with standard Orthodox Jewish theology, he holds that halakha, loosely translated as "Jewish law", is normative and binding on all Jews.
Lamm's major contribution is as a proponent of the idea of "Torah Umadda" - "Torah and modern culture, or more generally, the environing culture of our days" - a philosophical paradigm which aims at the confrontation of Torah learning and secular knowledge.
He argues that the underlying philosophy of Torah Umadda can be traced back to the Talmud and to Maimonides and that it is inspired by the work of Rabbi Samson Raphael Hirsch in the mid 19th century in response to the Enlightenment.
He states that Torah Umadda and Hirsch's Torah im Derech Eretz are to a large extent complementary - both value the acquisition of secular knowledge and both demand adherence to halakha.
Lamm is a well known voice of "Modern Orthodoxy" (which is also known as Centrist Orthodoxy), regarding itself as the "center" between the "left wing" branches of Orthodox Judaism, such as Rabbi Avi Weiss's "Open Orthodoxy," and the movements of the "right wing" such as Haredi Judaism.
(Some writers have suggested a difference between the two terms "Modern" and "Centrist" Judaism—something Lamm dismisses as artificial.)
Lamm is a strong critic of Reform Judaism's attempt to unilaterally redefine Jewishness.
In response to their declaration that a person can be considered Jewish with only a Jewish father, and not a Jewish mother, Lamm stated that this was "The single most irresponsible act in contemporary Jewish history."
Nonetheless, he has worked over the years to keep lines of communication open between Orthodox and Reform Judaism, in the hopes that Jewish unity can be maintained.
Lamm was a proponent of working with Reform and Conservative Judaism in the now-defunct Synagogue Council of America.
In a lecture before Klal, a “mixed” group of rabbis, he maintained that non-Orthodox rabbis are “valid” spiritual leaders of their congregants, whereas the Orthodox are “legitimate” religious leaders.
“Valid” comes from the Latin word validus which means powerful, strong–and they are certainly strong and influential Jewish leaders who should be respected for their efforts.
But only Orthodox rabbis can lay claim to “legitimacy,” a word which derives from Latin lex, law.
Only one committed fully to the halakha can be considered Jewishly legitimate as a rabbi.
While strongly disagreeing with the theology and religious practices of non-Orthodox forms of Judaism, Lamm has been one of the most outspoken leaders in Orthodoxy for cooperation with Conservative Judaism and Reform Judaism.
In 1989 and 1990 Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir asked Lamm to help defuse the crisis related to the "Who is a Jew?"
issue, which had erupted when a Reform convert wanted to make aliyah (emigration to the State of Israel).
Lamm devised a solution for the denominational crisis which required delicate diplomacy as well as good will on all sides.
In response to Lamm, Shamir appointed Israeli Cabinet Secretary Elyakim Rubenstein, later a member of the Supreme Court, who negotiated secretly for many months with rabbis from Conservative, Reform and Orthodox Judaism, including faculty at Yeshiva University, with Lamm as Rosh ha-Yeshiva.
The plan called for the creation of a joint panel that interviewed people who were converting to Judaism and considering making aliyah, and would refer them to a beit din (rabbinic court of Judaism) that would convert the candidate following traditional halakha.
All negotiating parties came to agreement: (1) Conversions must be carried out according to halakha, (2) the beit din overseeing the conversion would be Orthodox, perhaps appointed by the Chief Rabbinate of Israel, and (3) there would be a committee consisting of representatives of all three groups to interview potential converts as to their sincerity.
Many Reform rabbis took offense at the notion that the beit din must be strictly halakhic and Orthodox, but they acquiesced.
However, when word about this project became public, a number of leading Haredi rabbis issued a statement denouncing the project, condemning it as a "travesty of halakha".
Rabbi Moshe Sherer, then the Chairman of Agudath Israel World Organization, stated that "Yes, we played a role in putting an end to that farce, and I'm proud we did.,” Lamm condemned this interference by Sherer, stating that this was "the most damaging thing that he [Sherer] ever did in his brilliant forty year career."
Lamm wanted this to be only the beginning of a solution to Jewish disunity.
He stated that had this unified conversion plan not been destroyed, he wanted to extend this program to the area of halakhic Jewish divorces, thus ending the problem of mamzerut.
In 1997 the issue of "Who is a Jew?"
again arose in the State of Israel, and Lamm publicly backed the Neeman commission, a group of Orthodox, Conservative and Reform rabbis working to develop joint programs for conversion to Judaism.
In 1997 he gave a speech at the World Council of Orthodox Leadership, in Glen Springs, New York, urging Orthodox Jews to support this effort.
In his speech Seventy Faces Lamm warns his listeners that there will be an "unbridgeable and cataclysmic rupture within the Jewish community" unless Jews from all the denominations, including Orthodoxy, listen to each other and try and find a way to work together.
In this speech (now an essay) he rejects maximal ideas of religious pluralism, especially relativism.
He denies that non-Orthodox Jews have halakhic legitimacy, explaining that their views on halakha do not have normative status.
However he goes on to affirm a moderate form of religious pluralism, and holds that Orthodox Jews must accept that non-Orthodox rabbis are valid Jewish leaders, and possess spiritual dignity.
He holds that marriages that are officiated at by non-Orthodox Jews can be halakhically valid, but not so non-Orthodox divorces.
Orthodox and non-Orthodox Jews must find ways to work together.
Originally trained as a scientist, Lamm has maintained an interest in the interface between science and Judaism.
In his 1971 essay "The religious implications of extraterrestrial life," Lamm writes about scientific developments concerning abiogenesis and evolution, the creation of life on Earth, and the then developing scientific consensus that life could possibly evolve on other planets outside of our solar system (i.e.
extraterrestrial life).
Lamm's writings on this subject are prominently featured in the "What Is Out There?"
featurette, on disk two of the two disk special edition of 2001: A Space Odyssey.
This featurette offers the views of various scientists and philosophers on the possibility of extraterrestrial life.
In 1971 Lamm wrote Faith and Doubt: Studies in Traditional Jewish Thought, which was released in a second edition in 1986 and a third and up-dated edition in 2006.
This book is a personal examination of his religious beliefs.
In the 1980s many in Modern Orthodox Judaism felt battered by criticism from Orthodoxy's theological right-wing.
Many Orthodox Jews, notably HaRav Nissim Cahn, began to perceive Modern Orthodoxy as less compelling, and possibly less authentic, than Haredi Judaism.
As such, Lamm wrote a principled theological defense of Modern Orthodoxy in Torah Umadda: The Encounter of Religious Learning and Worldly Knowledge in the Jewish Tradition and its theology of Torah in confrontation with Madda or “Western Civilization”.
In 1989, his doctoral thesis examining the theological-kabbalistic differences in the Hasidic-Mitnagdic schism was published as Torah Lishmah: Torah for Torah's Sake in the Works of Rabbi Hayyim of Volozhin and His Contemporaries.
Influences on Lamm came from both camps, with Rav Soloveitchik descended from Hayim Volozhin, main Mitnagdic theorist, who is compared with Hasidism's theorist Schneur Zalman of Liadi.
In accompaniment, in 1999 Lamm published The Religious Thought of Hasidism: Text and Commentary, which offered an in-depth development of formative Hasidic thought, the mystical teachings of the movement founded in the 18th century by the Baal Shem Tov.
Through examination of primary sources, Lamm illustrates the development of Hasidic theology in the 18th and 19th centuries.
In 2000 Lamm wrote The Shema: Spirituality and Law in Judaism for a general audience not familiar with Jewish theology; this work focused on how a proper understanding of Judaism would lead a practitioner to spirituality.
This work was a rejoinder to the viewpoint that religious, observant Judaism was dry and legal, as opposed to spiritual and meaningful.
In addition to these, Lamm has written many essays on contemporary Jewish issues which were published in the journals Tradition, founded in 1958 by Lamm, and the Journal of Halacha and Contemporary Society.
Lamm's brother, Rabbi Maurice Lamm is also a well known rabbi, writer and organizer.
Lamm's nephew Shalom Auslander is also a writer, famously for Foreskin's Lament and is a well known critic of Orthodox Judaism.
Lamm stepped down as President in 2003, and was succeeded by Richard Joel, who became the fourth President of Yeshiva University and the first layman to hold the office.
Joel is a former attorney who also led the Bnai Brith's international Hillel student organization.
Richard Joel had previously been associate dean and professor at YU's Cardozo Law School and was an assistant district attorney in New York City.
Lamm was given the active position of Chancellor of YU  after 27 years as President.
He still maintained his title as Rosh HaYeshiva ("head of the yeshiva") of YU's rabbinical school - RIETS.
He was installed in the new position created for him as Chancellor of Yeshiva University in June 2003.
He continues to play a role in the affairs of the institution over which he presided for a quarter century.
In July 2013, Lamm announced his retirement as Chancellor and rosh yeshiva after more than 60 years at Yeshiva University, and apologized for not responding more assertively when students at Yeshiva University High School for Boys said that two rabbis there had sexually abused them.
Eugen Drewermann (born 20 June 1940) is a German church critic, theologian, peace activist and former Roman Catholic priest.
His work has been translated into more than a dozen languages.
Drewermann was born in Bergkamen near Dortmund.
He is best known in Germany for his work toward a non-violent form of Christianity, which, he believes, requires an integration of Depth psychology into Exegesis and Theology.
Trained in philosophy, theology, psychoanalysis, and comparative religious studies, he criticized the Roman Catholic Church's literal and biologistic interpretations of miracles, the virgin birth, Ascension, and Resurrection as superstitious and medieval.
He called on Rome to understand biblical stories symbolically in such a way that they can become present and healing to readers today.
Drewermann's controversial opinions on Catholic dogma, especially the Virgin birth of Jesus lead to a letter expressing "deep worry," in 1986 by then-Cardinal Ratzinger, Pope Benedict XVI, to Drewermann's archbishop, Johannes Joachim Degenhardt.
The struggle propelled Drewermann into the public limelight and culminated in 1991 after he published a radical critique of what he considers to be the Vatican's psychologically cruel and mentally enslaving clergy ideal (Kleriker: Psychogramm eines Ideals [Clergy: Psychogram of an ideal]).
Archbishop Degenhardt of Paderborn and the Catholic Bishops Conference of Germany engaged in a long drawn-out and heated debate with Drewermann which was closely followed by media and public.
As a consequence, on 7 October 1991, the Archbishop disallowed him to teach at the Catholic Seminary of Paderborn and, shortly afterwards, revoked his license to preach 1992.
Drewermann has uttered strong and controversial political opinions.
He was against the Gulf War, the Iraq War, German participation in the NATO war against Afghanistan, and Israeli Air Raids during the 2006 Lebanon War.
In the name of the German Peace Movement, he asked to abolish not only Walter Mixa's office as Military Bishop of Germany but the German military, the Bundeswehr, as such.
Drewermann has signed public calls to support the "Linkspartei" and delivers speeches on conferences and protest demonstrations of the left.
Drewermann left the Catholic Church on his 65th birthday on 20 June 2005, a decision he broadly announced on Sandra Maischbergers Talkshow in German television.
Son of a Lutheran father and a Catholic mother, Drewermann, after finishing high school (Abitur) in Germany, studied philosophy in Münster, theology in Paderborn and psychoanalysis in Göttingen.
Ordained as a Catholic priest in 1966, he worked as a diocesan priest, student chaplain, and eventually began work in 1974 as assistant priest in the parish of St. George in Paderborn.
At the same time, he worked as a psychotherapist, and from 1979 also held lectures in comparative religious studies and dogmatics at the Catholic Theological Faculty in Paderborn.
He continues to hold lectures in Studium generale at Paderborn and talks at other universities.
Influenced by Sigmund Freud, Carl Jung, and more recent psychoanalysts, Drewermann radically reinterprets biblical texts according to psychoanalytic, poetic, and existential criteria.
His method of interpretation has been clearly outlined in the 1984-1985 two-volume work Tiefenpsychologie und Exegese.
His interpretations are as immediate as poetry and aim to rediscover particularly the therapeutic message of Jesus and of the Hebrew prophets, both for the individual and for society at large.
A central topic of Drewermann is the specific way humans experience Angst (fear) due to our self-reflective capacity.
He maintains that religion has as its central task to help calm our human anxiety and to stop its devastating effects on all levels of human life, in its personal, social, and global manifestations.
Among his more than 80 books are dozens of titles presenting non-moralistic reinterpretations of nearly all biblical texts, including a monumental three-volume scholarly treatise on Genesis 2-11 (Strukturen des Bösen, 1977-8) and a two-volume commentary on the Gospel of Mark; a number of titles on urgent social issues such as war (Der Krieg und das Christentum, 1981), the environment (Der tödliche Fortschritt, 1982), and burning moral issues such as abortion, living will, suicide (Psychoanalyse und Moraltheologie, 1982-4, 3 vols); and, most recently, half a dozen volumes on the question of God in light of the findings of modern anthropology (1998), biology (1999), cosmology (2002), neurology (2006–2007); a depth psychological analysis of more than twenty of the most well-known fairy tales by the Brothers Grimm and one by Hans Christian Andersen.
Since 1992, Drewermann has been working as a freelance author and speaker.
He has frequent appearances in German TV talk shows and is invited to lecture all over Germany, Europe, and the world.
While his popularity as a church critic was at its maximum when Der Spiegel ran a cover story on him in its 1993 Christmas issue, he continues to be a highly sought-after commentator on spiritual, religious and social issues.
He currently has his own monthly call-in radio show titled Redefreiheit (Freedom of Speech) in Bremen [5], which was preceded by a prior regular call-in radio show in Berlin.
Drewermann has appeared twice with the Dalai Lama in Zurich, and has written a book with him on the dialogue among religions.
After the 11 September 2001 attacks he described the attacks as the result of complex dynamics in which both sides in the terror war had contributed to the conflict.
In agreement with the Dalai Lama, Drewermann called on the West to turn the attacks into an opportunity for peace not revenge.
Some Catholic scholars criticised Drewermann for focussing in his work on individual psychology without taking into consideration Christian communities and Christian tradition, arguing that Drewermann's approach had the effect of reducing the historical relevance of the Gospel and Revelation to a mere collection of texts used to cure individual anxiety.
A similar approach to Drewemann's work came from psychological scholars Albert Görres and Helmuth Benesch.
Catholic scholar Klaus Berger accused Drewermann of using outdated ideas and research methods and of subscribing to ancient misunderstandings of the Old Testament.
A pseudo Marcionism and using of biblical and other religious texts out of context is pointed out by Protestant scholar Manfred Oeming.
The political views of Drewermann have been sharply criticized by theologians Uwe Birnstein and Klaus-Peter Lehmann as being based on a traditional German antipolitical and romantic view and reducing all social aspects to individual fear and personal understanding and goodwill.
Peter Neuhaus, in his comparison of the Political Theology of Johannes Baptist Metz and the theology of Drewermann, counters that Drewermann's theology is imminently social in its critique and does not share in antipolitical or romantic views of politics.
Henryk M. Broder referred to Drewermann and other German intellectuals as reason for a book, in which he denounces Drewermann and others as underplaying the role of Islamic terrorism and putting the blame solely on the west, especially Israel and the US.
Josef Isensee, a Catholic German lawyer and specialist for Constitutional law, sees in Drewermann the prototype of a self-proclaimed church critic using strong opinions to gain profile and public awareness and profiting on the very organizational body he was member for the most time of his life.
Mohammad Tolba is an Egyptian Salafi activist and entrepreneur.
He was one of the protestors in the Tahrir Square during the Egyptian Revolution of 2011.
In the same year, he founded "Salafyo Costa," or "Costa Salafis" an activist group that embraces cultural diversity and pluralism and strives for social justice.
Tolba and other founders of the group named themselves after their meeting place: Costa Coffee.
It has evolved since into a social movement and a forum for dialogue, which brings together activists from different cultural, religious, ideological and ethnic backgrounds.
Salafyo Costa has Coptic Christians, socialists, Muslim Brotherhood members and liberals.
Some of the female members wear a niqāb while others sport a pair of jeans.
Together they have forged a common identity and pursued common goals.
Tolba embraces teachings of Salafism albeit he rejects the "discriminating"  term Islamist as for him all Muslims are or should be Islamists by definition.
In spite of his long beard, he is more likely than not to be seen wearing casual outfit or business attire.
According to him he has learned the importance of returning to original religious sources and recognising their underlying principles before implementing them in daily life.
Being a Salafi for him means to practice Islam according to a certain understanding of how it was being practiced in its first 300 years after Prophet Mohammed received the message.
He believes that all Egyptians, including Salafis are partners in the nation, no matter how badly Salafis were treated before.
Above all he believes that if Egyptians were educated about their rights and choices, things will definitely change.
They will go after those rights and fight for them.
Tolba strongly advocates for credibility and accountability.
He believes accountability is a two way process.
Decision makers must be held accountable towards people they represent, and grassroots communities are to realize that they are also accountable before themselves, others and future generations for their actions and shouldering their responsibilities.
Therefore, Tolba works hard on enabling and empowering individuals in rural underdeveloped settings in Egypt.
He classifies the work that he does under a sustainable development action plan with more than charitable momentary vision.
He has boycotted all rounds of the first post- Revolution Presidential Elections and he repeatedly stresses that politics is but a tool for serving and supporting communities.
Tolba has appeared in several short films, some of which were produced by Costa Salafis.
The short film: Ayna Wedni?
addresses the stance of orthodox Muslim scholars towards the Egyptian Revolution of 2011, their relation with the regime then and their attempts to hinder the participation of young followers through strict interpretation of religious texts.
, that was also produced by the activists group, cleverly talks about the post- revolution internal divisions within the Egyptian society.
The film depicts one of the major challenges after the success of the revolution, where different people representing opposite backgrounds and religious beliefs clash over their rights in a shop standing for their country: Egypt.
Although Tolba stresses that he strictly embraces Salafism, he and his Salafyo Costa fiends have been the subject of criticism from Salafi Sheikhs and other Islamists who are often resistant to bridging the gap with the other.
Sheikh Mohamed Abdel-Maqsoud, an Egyptian prominent Salafi scholar and a representative of the Sharia Commission for Rights and Reconciliation, described Tolba as "daring and ignorant" for making "many compromises to gain followers."
Tolba has refrained from commenting and underlined his respect for Sheikh Abdel- Maqsoud and his religious views.
Tolba's political views are often kept personal to keep the focus on the social change he aims at making.
Yet, that does not save him from being bashed by different politically affiliated groups for not taking a publicly clear stance supporting one side or another.
Tolba was born on 29 May 1979 into an upper-middle-class family who lives at Mohandessin.
He holds an MBA in Leadership and Sustainability and a Sales Professional Diploma from the American University in Cairo.
Tolba has two brothers: Ezzat and Amr.
He is married and has one son and two daughters.
He turned to God and religion at an early age after a raging adolescence when a close friend of his lost his life in a car accident.
He first was picked out by a group of young members of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt and became close to them.
He had learned a lot about Islamic teachings and practices from them before he became a disciple of a moderate mentor Sheikh of the Salafi movement that remains anonymous.
Tolba held several high management posts at different IT companies.
He moved to Sudan in 2006 and became the Telecom Sales Manager of North Africa & Country Manager of International Turnkey Systems, before he started his own enterprise company: Over Coffee Solutions in 2013.
As the founder and owner of an IT company, Tolba creates computer-mediated environments for dialogue and activism with a special focus on education systems.
Tolba writes for the Atlantic Council, Al-Youm Al-Sabe'a, Masr Al-Arabia and Al- Dostor Al-Asly.
In politics, a noble lie is a myth or untruth, often, but not invariably, of a religious nature, knowingly told by an elite to maintain social harmony or to advance an agenda.
The noble lie is a concept originated by Plato as described in the Republic.
In religion, a pious fiction is a narrative that is presented as true by the author, but is considered by others to be fictional albeit produced with an altruistic motivation.
The term is sometimes used pejoratively to suggest that the author of the narrative was deliberately misleading readers for selfish or deceitful reasons.
The term is often used in religious contexts, sometimes referring to passages in religious texts.
Plato presented the Noble Lie (γενναῖον ψεῦδος, gennaion pseudos) in a fictional tale, wherein Socrates provides the origin of the three social classes who compose the republic proposed by Plato; Socrates speaks of a socially stratified society, wherein the populace are told "a sort of Phoenician tale": Socrates proposes and claims that if the people believed "this myth .
.
.
[it] would have a good effect, making them more inclined to care for the state and one another."
This is his noble lie: "a contrivance for one of those falsehoods that come into being in case of need, of which we were just now talking, some noble one.
.
.
."
Karl Popper accused Plato of trying to base religion on a noble lie as well.
In The Open Society and Its Enemies, Popper remarks, “It is hard to understand why those of Plato’s commentators who praise him for fighting against the subversive conventionalism of the Sophists, and for establishing a spiritual naturalism ultimately based on religion, fail to censure him for making a convention, or rather an invention, the ultimate basis of religion.” Religion for Plato is a noble lie, at least if we assume that Plato meant all of this sincerely, not cynically.
Popper finds Plato's conception of religion to have been very influential in subsequent thought.
Strauss noted that thinkers of the first rank, going back to Plato, had raised the problem of whether good and effective politicians could be completely truthful and still achieve the necessary ends of their society.
By implication, Strauss asks his readers to consider whether it is true that noble lies have no role at all to play in uniting and guiding the polis.
Are myths needed to give people meaning and purpose and to ensure a stable society?
Or can men dedicated to relentlessly examining, in Nietzsche's language, those "deadly truths," flourish freely?
Thus, is there a limit to the political, and what can be known absolutely?
In The City and Man, Strauss discusses the myths outlined in Plato's Republic that are required for all governments.
These include a belief that the state's land belongs to it even though it was likely acquired illegitimately and that citizenship is rooted in something more than the accidents of birth.
Seymour Hersh also claims that Strauss endorsed noble lies: myths used by political leaders seeking to maintain a cohesive society.
In The Power of Nightmares, documentary filmmaker Adam Curtis opines that "Strauss believed it was for politicians to assert powerful and inspiring myths that everyone could believe in.
They might not be true, but they were necessary illusions.
One of these was religion; the other was the myth of the nation."
"Plato has been criticized for his Foundation Myth as if it were a calculated lie.
That is partly because the phrase here translated 'magnificent myth' (p.414b) has been conventionally mistranslated 'noble lie'; and this has been used to support the charge that Plato countenances manipulation by propaganda.
But the myth is accepted by all three classes, Guardians included.
It is meant to replace the national traditions which any community has, which are intended to express the kind of community it is, or wishes to be, its ideals, rather than to state matters of fact."
The Sea of Faith Network (SoF) aims are "Exploring and promoting religious faith as a human creation..." Although arguably not an organisation based on the noble lie, many of their members no longer believe, but continue to espouse religious beliefs for positive social control and continue to hold positions in many religious organizations and various church groups.
Religion is a collection of cultural systems, beliefs, and world views that establishes symbols that relate humanity to spirituality and, sometimes to moral values.
While religion is hard to define, one standard model of religion, used in religious studies courses, was proposed by Clifford Geertz, who simply called it a "cultural system."
A critique of Geertz's model by Talal Asad categorized religion as "an anthropological category."
Many religions have narratives, symbols, traditions, and sacred histories that are intended to give meaning to life or to explain the origin of life or the universe.
They tend to derive morality, ethics, religious laws, or a preferred lifestyle from their ideas about the cosmos and human nature.
According to some estimates, there are roughly 4,200 religions in the world.
The word religion is sometimes used interchangeably with "faith" or "belief system", but religion differs from private belief in that it has a public aspect.
Most religions have organized behaviors, including clerical hierarchies, a definition of what constitutes adherence or membership, congregations of laity, regular meetings or services for the purposes of veneration of a deity or for prayer, holy places (either natural or architectural), and/or religious texts.
Certain religions also have a sacred language often used in liturgical services.
The practice of a religion may also include sermons, commemoration of the activities of a god or gods, sacrifices, festivals, feasts, trance, initiations, funerals, marriages, meditation, music, art, dance, public service, or other aspects of human culture.
Religious beliefs have also been used to explain parapsychological phenomena such as out-of-body experiences, near-death experiences and reincarnation, along with many other paranormal experiences.
Some academics studying the subject have divided religions into three broad categories: world religions, a term which refers to transcultural, international faiths; indigenous religions, which refers to smaller, culture-specific or nation-specific religious groups; and new religious movements, which refers to recently developed faiths.
One modern academic theory of religion, social constructionism, says that religion is a modern concept that suggests all spiritual practice and worship follows a model similar to the Abrahamic religions as an orientation system that helps to interpret reality and define human beings, and thus religion, as a concept, has been applied inappropriately to non-Western cultures that are not based upon such systems, or in which these systems are a substantially simpler construct.
A group of monotheistic traditions sometimes grouped with one another for comparative purposes, because all refer to a patriarch named Abraham.
Certain Christian groups are difficult to classify as "Eastern" or "Western."
Many Gnostic groups were closely related to early Christianity, for example, Valentinism.
Irenaeus wrote polemics against them from the standpoint of the then-unified Catholic Church.
The Yazidis are a syncretic Kurdish religion with a Gnostic influence: None of these religions are still extant.
Samaritans use a slightly different version of the Pentateuch as their Torah, worshiping at Mount Gerizim instead of Jerusalem, and are possibly the descendants of the lost Northern Kingdom.
They are definitely of ancient Israelite origin, but their status as Jews is disputed.
Indian religions are the religions that originated in the Indian subcontinent; namely Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism and Sikhism and religions and traditions related to, and descended from, them.
African diasporic religions are a number of related religions that developed in the Americas among African slaves and their descendants in various countries of the Caribbean Islands and Latin America, as well as parts of the southern United States.
They derive from African traditional religions, especially of West and Central Africa, showing similarities to the Yoruba religion in particular.
Traditionally, these faiths have all been classified "Pagan", but scholars prefer the terms "indigenous/primal/folk/ethnic religions".
This article focuses solely on Hinduism in Trinidad and Tobago, for Hinduism in Guyana, see: Hinduism in Guyana For Hinduism in West Indies excluding Trinidad and Tobago, see: Hinduism in the West Indies Hinduism is a minority religion in Trinidad and Tobago.
Since the arrival of the first Indians in 1845, Hindu culture has been looked down upon.
The harsh treatment of Hindus eased in 1985 and in the 21st century has almost completely disappeared, with pro Hindu parties being elected.
According to the 2000 census there were 250,760 Hindus in T&T contributing 22.49% of the total population and 56.19% of the population of the Indo-Caribbeans.
In the 2011 census, There are 240,100 declared Hindus in Trinidad and Tobago (decline of 4.3 per cent).
There are also various temples in Trinidad and Tobago to accommodate Hindus.
A decade after slavery was abolished in 1834, the British government gave permission for the colonists to import indentured labor from India to work on the plantations.
Throughout the remainder of the century, Trinidad's population growth came primarily from East Indian laborers.
By 1871, there were 27,425 East Indians, approximately 22 percent of the population of Trinidad and Tobago; by 1911 that figure had grown to 110,911, or about 33 percent of all residents of the islands.
During the initial decades of Indian indenture, Indian cultural forms were met with either contempt or indifference by the Christian majority.
Hindus have made many contributions to Trinidad history and culture even though the state historically regarded Hindus as second class citizens.
Hindus in Trinidad struggled over the granting of adult franchise, the Hindu marriage bill, the divorce bill, cremation ordinance, and others.
After Trinidad's independence from colonial rule, Hindus were marginalized by the African-based People's National Movement.
The opposing party, the People's Democratic party, was portrayed as a "Hindu group", and other anti-Hindu tactics were used against them.
Hindus were castigated as a "recalcitrant and hostile minority".
Hindus were alienated by such Christian communal groups.
The support of the PNM government to creole art forms in Carnivals, while their public rejection and ridicule of Hindu art forms, was a particular source of contention for the Hindu minority.
The displacement of PNM from power in 1985 would improve the situation.
There has been persistent discontent among the Hindus with their marginalization.
Many Christianized groups portray Hindus as "clannish, backward and miserly".
During the General Elections of 1986, the absence of the Bhagvad Gita and the Quran at polling stations for required oath-taking was interpreted as a gross insult to Hindus and Muslims.
The absence of any Hindu religious texts at the official residence of the President of Trinidad and Tobago during the swearing in of the new Government in 1986 was perceived as another insult to the minority communities since they were represented in the government.
The exclusivist Christian symbolism operative in the country's top national award, the Trinity Cross, has persistently stung Hindu religious sensibility.
This was to climax in 1995 with the refusal of the Hindu Dharmaacharya to accept the award, while issuing a statement that his action should be seen as an opportunity for those in authority to create a national award that recognizes the plurality of religious beliefs in this country.
The national education system and curriculum have been repeatedly accused of such majority-oriented symbolism.
The use of discernibly Christian-oriented prayers at Government schools, the non-representation of Hinduism in approved school textbooks, and the lack of emphasis on Hindu religious observace evoked deep resentment from the Hindu community.
Intensified protests over the course of the 1980s led to an improvement in the state's attitudes towards Hindus.
The divergence of some of the fundamental aspects of local Hindu culture, the segregation of the Hindu community from Trinidad, and the disinclination to risk erasing the more fundamental aspects of what had been constructed as "Trinidad Hinduism" in which the identity of the group had been rooted, would often generate dissension when certain dimensions of Hindu culture came into contact with the State.
While the incongruences continue to generate debate, and often conflict, it is now tempered with growing awareness and consideration on the part of the state to the Hindu minority.
Hindus have been also been subjected to persistent proselytization by Christian missionariess, specifically the evangelical and Pentecostal Christians.
Such activities reflect racial tensions that at times arise between the Christianized Afro-Trinidadian and Hindu Indo-Trinidadian communities.
As in Guyana, caste distinctions are all but forgotten among Trinidadian Hindus.
In the plantation housing, it was not possible to maintain extended households even if the kin were available.
Considerations of caste became less important in choosing a spouse largely because there were so few women among the East Indian indentured workers.
The major Hindu organisation in Trinidad and Tobago is the Sanatan Dharma Maha Sabha led by Satnarayan Maharaj.
The Hindu festivals of Diwali and Phagwah are widely celebrated in Trinidad.
Cuba's prevailing religion is Christianity, primarily Roman Catholicism, although in some instances it is profoundly modified and influenced through syncretism.
A common syncretic religion is Santería, which combined the Yoruba religion of the African slaves with Catholicism and some Native American strands; it shows similarities to Brazilian Umbanda and has been receiving a degree of official support.
The Roman Catholic Church estimates that 60 percent of the population is Catholic, but only 5% of that 60% attends mass regularly, while independent sources estimate that as few 1.5% of the population does so.
Membership in Protestant churches is estimated to be 5 percent and includes Baptists, Pentecostals, Seventh-day Adventists, Presbyterians, Anglicans, Episcopalians, Methodists, Religious Society of Friends (Quakers), and Lutherans.
Other groups include the Greek Orthodox Church, the Russian Orthodox Church, Jehovah's Witnesses, Muslims, Buddhists, Jews, Baha'is, and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons).
Cuba is home to a variety of syncretic religions of largely African cultural origin.
According to a US State Department report, some sources estimate that as much as 80 percent of the population consults with practitioners of religions with West African roots, such as Santeria or Yoruba.
Santería developed out of the traditions of the Yoruba, one of the African peoples who were imported to Cuba during the 16th through 19th centuries to work on the sugar plantations.
Santería blends elements of Christianity and West African beliefs and as such made it possible for the slaves to retain their traditional beliefs while appearing to practice Catholicism.
La Virgen de la Caridad del Cobre (Our Lady Of Charity) is the Catholic patroness of Cuba, and is greatly revered by the Cuban people and seen as a symbol of Cuba.
In Santería, she has been syncretized with the goddess Ochún.
The important religious festival "La Virgen de la Caridad del Cobre" is celebrated by Cubans annually on 8 September.
Other religions practised are Palo Monte, and Abakuá, which have large parts of their liturgy in African languages.
After the communist revolution of 1959, the government of Cuba did not restrict religious practice.
Yet, religious people were not allowed to join the Cuban Communist Party due to religion being contradictory to the party's Marxist philosophy.
In August 1960, several bishops signed a joint pastoral letter condemning communism and declaring it incompatible with Catholicism, and calling on Catholics to reject it.
Castro gave a four-hour speech the next day, condemning priests who serve "great wealth" and using fears of Falangist influence to attack Spanish born priests, declaring "There is no doubt that Franco has a sizeable group of fascist priests in Cuba."
However, the stance of the Cuban Communist Party has shifted.
Raúl Castro said in a 2015 televised news conference in which he discussed Pope Francis's September 2015 visit, "I am from the Cuban Communist Party that doesn't allow believers, but now we are allowing it.
Castro indicated he might return to being a practicing Catholic and that he would attend the Masses that the pope celebrates in Cuba.
Studies appeared that attempted to link Afro-Cuban religions with mental illness.
The campaign for the eradication of racial discrimination in Cuba was (and still is) used as grounds to forbid the creation of Afro-Cuban institutions, because doing so was labelled as racially divisive.
Pastor Clara Rodes Gonzalez claims "we suffered discrimination in the schools and at work."
The decade following the 1960s was turbulent, and many people lost interest in religion because much of the religious hierarchy opposed the popular revolution.
The Archdiocese of Havana in 1971 reported only 7000 baptisms.
In 1989 this figure had increased to 27,609 and in 1991 to 33,569.
In 1985 the Council of State in Havana published a best-selling book called Fidel y la Religion, which was the condensed transcription of 23 hours of interviews between Fidel Castro and a Brazilian liberation theology friar named Frei Betto, O.P.
He claimed responsibility for excluding non-atheists from Communist Party membership on grounds that: <blockquote> What we were demanding was complete adherence to Marxism-Leninism...It was assumed that anybody who joined the party would accept the party's policy and doctrine in all aspects.< In the years following the collapse of the Soviet Union, the state adopted a more conciliatory position towards religion and lessened its promotion of atheism.
In November 1991 the Communist Party began to allow believers into its ranks.
In July 1992, the constitution was amended to remove the definition of Cuba as being a state based on Marxism–Leninism, and article 42 was added, which prohibited discrimination on the basis of religious belief.
Small worship centres were legally permitted to exist again.
In the early 1990s, weekly church-attendance on the island of 11 million was estimated at around 250,000 or about 2% of the population (with an even division between Catholics and Protestants).
Cuba had fewer priests per inhabitant than any other Latin American country.
Since 1992, restrictions have been eased, and direct challenges by state institutions to the right to believe eased somewhat, though the Roman Catholic church still faces restrictions of written and electronic communication and can only accept donations from state-approved funding sources.
The Roman Catholic Church is made up of the Cuban Catholic Bishops' Conference (CCBC), led by Jaime Lucas Ortega y Alamino, Cardinal Archbishop of Havana.
It has eleven dioceses, 56 orders of nuns and 24 orders of priests.
The Cuban Bishops' Conference has severely criticized the US embargo against Cuba and has claimed that the entire population has suffered from it.
The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops has been influenced by this and has argued for the exclusion of food and medicine from the embargo.
In January 1998, Pope John Paul II paid a historic visit to the island, invited by the Cuban government and the Catholic Church in Cuba.
The pope criticized the US embargo during his visit.
Pope Benedict XVI visited Cuba in 2012 and Pope Francis visited in 2015.
In a shift in policy, the Cuban government has issued permits to allow the construction of a new church in Cuba, the first since 1959.
On October 20, 2008, the first Russian Orthodox Church in Cuba opened during an official ceremony attended by Raul Castro.
The arrival and endurance of Santeria (also known as Regla de Ocha) in Cuba results from multiple contributing factors.
The roots of Santeria stem from Nigeria and were transported to Cuba by way of the Lucumi people.
However, the Lucumi people only consisted of about 8% of the overall slave population in Cuba from 1760 until about 1850.
With such low numbers to draw upon, the religion was under constant attack in the form of dilution through more dominant numbers in the form of reproductive outsourcing and the cruelty inflicted through the employment of slavery.
Between 1800 and 1850 almost the entire population in Cuba consisted of people of African descent.
This factor created a sense of uncertainty for plantation owners because of tensions amongst the slave population.
The slave rivalries eventually resulted in an ever-rising loss in production.
The method for combating the losses yielded that an increase in the Lucumi population would serve the plantation best.
Lucumi people were known to be hard workers and mild mannered.
As result of increasing import of slaves the population of the Lucumi rose sharply to about 34%.
Attributing to the increase of Santeria was that many other slaves and freemen began to practice the religion of Santeria, thereby increasing the span of influence and affiliation in a more diverse manner.
The disposition of colonialism brought a significant strain on all religions outside of Catholicism.
Over the course of a 90-year span, the Lucumi maintained the practice of the religion of Santeria.
The religion of Santeria encompasses sacrificial food, song, dance, costumes, spiritual deities and the use of artifacts.
In the beginning the Lucumi and other worshippers of Santeria would have to practice in secret.
They would create hasty areas in which they would conduct structuralized practice of Santeria and return to their colonial life after.
However, the practice of Santeria on a more regular basis takes place not on the sugar plantations but in the urban areas.
The syncretism that modernized Santeria was introduced when high-class mulattoes needed to find ways to alleviate ailments such as stress or sickness.
There was no formal medical aid available to the community at the time.
In light of this disposition high-class Mulattoes pulled from whatever resources that they could find.
They employed the practices of Christian-educated slaves with Afro-Cuban healers and Spanish curanderos.
The Afro-Cuban healers and Spanish curanderos served as the only medical practitioners in Cuba and were responsible for treating both the black and white population.
The distance between the city and the countryside made it very difficult for slaves to participate in the syncretism of Santeria with Catholicism and Christianity.
This was due to geography.
Most of the European religious churches were located the urban areas or towns and to attend services would require traveling over long distances, which would interfere with the sugar production.
In the urban areas slaves worked alongside freemen and White Cubans in a less restricted atmosphere.
They were educated and trusted to perform skilled labor and given a great deal of responsibility.
They served in a number of diverse jobs, which acted as a catalyst for the syncretism of Santeria with Catholicism and Christianity.
Not every slave in Cuba complied with the employment of slavery.
Cimmarones, as the Cuban slave owners labeled them, were a group of slaves who fled captivity and formed communities consisting of thousands of people.
They took refuge in the wilderness and the mountains of Cuba where they maintained the practice of Santeria.
They were considered a very serious threat to the colonial government's hold on slavery and oppression.
The Cimarrones were able to elude capture and to provide aid and shelter to other escaped slaves.
Over the course of time they developed the means to communicate with other surrounding secret camps via the plantation slaves and friendly White Cubans.
Other slaves and freemen who lived in rural areas formed secret societies and groups in which they exercised their religious beliefs of Santeria out of public view to avoid colonial reform and oppression.
After the abolishment of slavery Palenque, the Cimarrones establishment was converted into a town named El Cobre after surviving for fifty years.
In the religion of Santeria the emphasis of conscious existence binds the understanding of nature, the higher powers, and the channels of lineage together through ritual practice and clairvoyance.
The circle is a symbol that is divided into three sections that begin at the core with people and extend out into two other sections being ancestors and finally divinities.
The significance of people at the inner core stand to represent the present day of existence and understanding in the form of perception with in the individual as he or she can interpret the information surrounding them.
The outer layer of the ancestor represents the heritable understanding that the individual carries with them as a source of how and why to interpret values of perception within a given realm.
The outmost layer represents divinity is the value of knowledge, direction and understanding that is acquired from Orishas and personal experience.
The existence the circle represents is not a fixed plain of understanding but stands as an interchangeable ever-evolving and rotating sense of awareness and being.
Santeria lineage is structured in the connection through Sibs (a group of kin) with each Sib being traced back to a common male ancestor linking the bloodlines to the religion.
"There were three different routes for the transmission of Orisha worship.
A child could inherit an Orisha from either its mother or father and continue their worship of it.
In this case a triangular relationship existed between the child, the parent, and the Orisha."
As of 2014, there were about 96,000 active Jehovah's Witnesses in Cuba (about 0.85% of the population).
From 1938 to 1947, the number of Jehovah's Witnesses in Cuba increased from about 100 to 4,000.
After World War II, membership in Cuba increased to 20,000, and by 1989 there were approximately 30,000 members.
The movement was banned in Cuba in 1974, and members have been imprisoned for their refusal of military service.
During the Mariel boatlift in 1980, about 3,000 Witnesses left Cuba.
They were forced out because "they continued to worship God in their own way."
In 1994, the Cuban government released representatives of the Watch Tower Society, and members were permitted to meet in groups of up to 150 at Kingdom Halls and other places for worship.
A branch office of Jehovah's Witnesses, with a print shop, was opened in Havana in the same year.
In 1998, Witnesses were permitted to meet at larger conventions in major cities in Cuba.
Akinchi ( / اکينچی), also transliterated as Ekinchi ("The Cultivator"), was an Azerbaijani-language newspaper, published in Baku (then part of the Russian Empire, now the capital of the Republic of Azerbaijan) between 1875 and 1877.
It was the first newspaper fully printed in Azerbaijani, as well as the first newspaper in Russia printed in a Turkic language.
Founded by journalist, teacher and scientist, and a Moscow University alumnus Hasan bey Zardabi, Akinchi was regarded almost as revolutionary not only as the first periodical published in Azeri, but for being also the means of reaching the masses.
In order to make media accessible to lower classes, Zardabi propagated reforms in the literal Azeri language aimed at making it more vernacular by excluding bulky expressions and loanwords from Persian and Arabic used mostly in religious texts and classical poetry.
Akinchi hence would often be subject to criticism by the literati who found its written style too colloquial.
The Russian governor of the Caucasus Dmitry Staroselsky sympathized with Zardabi's endeavours and supported him in the establishment of Akinchi.
He was also the one proposing the name for the newspaper that in his opinion would convince the authorities that Akinchi was a non-political magazine that dealt with spreading agricultural technique.
In addition to agriculture-oriented articles Zardabi published materials related to medicine and biology as well as editorials dealing with the social and cultural state of Muslims in the Caucasus.
The first issue of Akinchi was printed on 22 July 1875.
Staroselsky's departure was a factor that among others contributed to the shutting down of the periodical on 29 September 1877.
Other reasons were lack of sponsorship and low amount of readers (who would often be misled by the reactionist clergy into believing in the "sinful nature" of non-religious texts) despite the fact that the newspaper was given away for free.
For the 26 months that it existed, Akinchi had attracted only 300 constant readers.
Nevertheless, its existence profoundly contributed to the development of journalism in Azerbaijan and the establishment of Azeri-language newspapers and magazines such as Ziya (in 1879), Ziya Gafgaziya (in 1880), Keshkul (in 1883), Sharg-i rus (in 1903), Irshad, Hayat (both in 1905), Fiyuzat, Takammul and Molla Nasraddin (all in 1906) after which the Azeri press entered a new stage of development.
22 July, the day of the first publication of Akinchi, was declared in 2010 as the National Press Day in Azerbaijan.
The Gita Press is the world's largest publisher of Hindu religious texts.
It is located in Gorakhpur city of India's Uttar Pradesh state.
It was founded in 1923 by Jaya Dayal Goyandka and Ghanshyam Das Jalan for promoting the principles of Sanatana Dharma.
Hanuman Prasad Poddar was the founding and the lifetime editor of its noted magazine, Kalyan.
It started publishing in 1927, with a circulation of 1,600 copies and at present its print order had reached 2.5 lakh (in 2012).
The Gita Press archives contain over 3,500 manuscripts including over 100 interpretations of the Gita.
Seth Jaya Dayal Goyandka and Shri Ghanshyam Das Jalan, Gita preachers set up the Gita Press on April 29, 1923, as a unit of Gobind Bhawan Karyalaya registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (presently governed by the West Bengal Societies Act, 1960).
Five months later it acquired its first printing machine for Rs 600.
Since its establishment, the Gita Press has published approximately 410 million copies of the Gita (in different editions) and 70.0 million copies of the Ramcharitamanas, at subsidized prices.
It temporarily shut down in December 2014 over wage issues, but work resumed a few days later.
Neither of these magazines runs any advertisements.
It has a small Bhagavath Gita which costs Rs.4/- which is very popular These texts are published in Sanskrit, Hindi, Marathi, English, Kannada, Tamil, Telugu, Gujarati, Bengali, Oriya and other languages of India.
The Art Gallery has the lilas ( exploits ) of Shri Rama and Shri Krishna portrayed in 684 paintings by famed artists of the past and present.
Other paintings, including Mewari style paintings of the Shri Krishna Lila are also on exhibit.
The entire 700 verses of the Bhagvad Gita are displayed on marble plaques affixed to the walls.
The Gita Press is part of the Govind Bhawan Karyalaya, Kolkata.
Daniel Willis born 8 April 1954, (Herberton) [1] is an Australian clergyman, having spent most of his adult life in the Anglican Diocese of Sydney.
In 2012 Willis formed Leading Global Impact, an organisation dedicated to leadership development amongst top leaders who are thinking nationally or internationally.
He was appointed CEO of Bible Society NSW [2] (October 2001) and lead the organisation through significant change until July 2010.
He was also appointed to the position of International Deputy Director for the South Pacific Region [3] (Oceania) of the Lausanne Movement[4] in 2004.
Since moving to Sydney Sydney in 1972 he has had an extensive career both in business and ministry.
Willis, who already held a Bachelor of Business, studied Theology at Moore Theological College, graduating in 1987 with a Bachelor of Theology from the Australian College of Theology and the College's own Diploma of Arts in Ministry.
He also holds a Master of Education in Religious Education from the University of South Australia.
In his earlier life Willis worked for Arnott's Biscuits exporting product throughout the Asia Pacific and the Middle East.
On leaving Arnott's he studied Information Technology and worked for Blue Metal Industries, now owned by the Boral Group and before entering Moore College spent 2 years at United Data Centre.
Willis was ordained a Deacon in Sydney's St Andrew's Cathedral by Archbishop Donald Robinson in 1988 and in December of the same year ordained a Priest in Wollongong's St Michael's Cathedral Church [5] by Bishop Harry Goodhew, who later became Archbishop of Sydney.
He served in parish churches of St Phillip's Caringbah[6], St Albans Frenchs Forest [7] and the Cathedral Church of St Andrew [8].
In 2001, Willis moved from pastoral ministry to become the Chief Executive Officer of Bible Society NSW.
Under his leadership the Society saw significant change including moving from its city building to its present location at Macquarie Park and converting from a statutory body under a 1927 Act of the New South Wales Parliament to a company limited by guarantee under the Corporations Act (2001) in October 2008.
The Board of Bible Society Western Australia enlisted his help from February 2005 to 2007 to assist them with the management and reshaping of their organisation.
All About Life Project, developed in 2004 and run in Adelaide 2005, Canberra 2006, and in Tasmania 2007, ran across NSW and Western Australia.
The project brought together 15 denominations and some 1700 churches to work together in utilizing various forms of media to engage people in a discussion about the relevance of Jesus Christ to everyday life.
Willis was a significant driving force in leading the seven independent Bible Societies across Australia to form a single, national company.
Members of each Society voted unanimously for the formation of a single corporation in September 2009.
In 2010 Willis led the South Pacific delegation to Lausanne’s Third Congress on World Evangelization in Cape Town, South Africa [9].
His involvement with the Lausanne Movement continues to keep his passion for world evangelization at the forefront of his thinking.
He has travelled and taught in over 36 countries to mentor and develop emerging leaders.
Prior to joining the Bible Society Daniel worked in parish ministry in the Anglican Diocese of Sydney.
His last pastoral ministry position was at St Andrew’s Cathedral (February 1997 to October 2001)[10] with responsibility for the Cathedral congregation and Cross Talk, a ministry to the city’s business community.
The Cathedral underwent major restoration work during this time [11] For the past 28 years he has worked in parish and Bible ministry and is actively involved in mentoring a number of younger leaders across the world.
Holding degrees in business, theology and education, Daniel has served as a director with a number of businesses and Christian organisations.
He is a founding Director and Chairman of the Australian Christian Heritage Foundation, and is on the Advisory Council of the Australian Christian Lobby.
Knox College is a postgraduate theological college of the University of Toronto in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
It was founded in 1844 as part of a schism movement in the Church of Scotland following the Disruption of 1843.
Knox is affiliated with the Presbyterian Church in Canada and confers doctoral degrees as a member school of the Toronto School of Theology.
Controversy arising from the issue of state control in the Church of Scotland led to the Disruption of 1843 and the establishment of the Free Church of Scotland.
In response, several Presbyterian ministers and congregations within the Canadian synod of the Church of Scotland switched their affiliation to the new denomination.
Queen's College, a Presbyterian seminary in Kingston, decided in 1844 to remain affiliated with the Church of Scotland, prompting some of its students to defect and establish Knox College in Toronto.
Named for Scottish Reformation theologian John Knox, the new college became affiliated with the Free Church.
The first class included 14 students and took place on November 5, 1844, in the home of Rev.
Henry Esson on James Street, at the present site of Toronto Eaton Centre.
For the next two years, Knox College transitioned to larger buildings acquired at Adelaide Street and later Front Street, at the present site of the Fairmont Royal York Hotel.
Scottish minister Rev.
Dr. Michael Willis, the founding president of the Anti-Slavery Society of Canada (1851), became the first principal of the college in 1857.
Willis came to Toronto in 1846 from St. John's Renfield Church, Glasgow, where he followed Thomas Chalmers and took part in the Disruption of 1843.
Knox was formally granted its charter from the colonial government in 1858, thereby possessing the authority to confer academic degrees.
In 1861, the Canada Presbyterian Church was created from the union of the Canadian synods of the Free Church of Scotland with the United Presbyterian Church of Scotland.
Knox College absorbed the existing United Presbyterian Church theological college that was founded in London, Canada West in 1844.
In 1867, Knox College assisted the establishment of The Presbyterian College, Montreal, as the second theological college affiliated with the Canadian Presbyterian Church.
Knox College donated some of the books from its library collection, and several Knox alumni served as faculty of The Presbyterian College.
In 1875, Knox College moved to a new Gothic-revival building at 1 Spadina Crescent, and operated as the main seminary for the newly formed Presbyterian Church in Canada.
Towards the end of the century, Knox began encouraging its students to attend non-divinity studies at the nearby University College of the University of Toronto.
Knox College entered formal affiliation with the University of Toronto in 1885.
In 1890, Knox College became part of the university within a federated governance structure.
In 1915, Knox College moved to its present site adjacent to University College.
During World War II, Knox College accommodated faculty and students from The Presbyterian College, Montreal, whose building was used for military training until 1946.
In 1969, Knox became a founding member of the Toronto School of Theology.
By virtue of an amendment of its charter, Knox College has granted theology degrees conjointly with the university and the Toronto School of Theology since 1978.
Ewart College, a women's college of the Presbyterian Church, was merged into Knox College in 1991.
Founded in 1897, Ewart College was initially known as the Presbyterian Missionary and Deaconess Training School and then Ewart Missionary Training Home after Catherine Seaton Ewart in 1960.
In 2005, Knox observed its 160th anniversary with a visit and lecture by Alison Elliot, the Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland.
Knox college provides a number of facilities to the University of Toronto community, including Knox College Chapel.
The chapel is noted for its Hellmuth Wolff organ.
The chapel has a large south-facing window that is largely unobstructed by other buildings.
As a result, natural sunlight streams in through the window.
The glass is such that it softens the light to some degree, but without taking away its directionality.
Seating is provided by two rows of pews on either side of the central aisle.
There is a front piece in front of the frontmost pews for hymn books of those at the front of the congregation.
This organ was built in 1915 by Casavant and is original to the building.
It is split between two chambers at the front of the room and consists of 26 stops and 24 ranks.
The console was replaced in 1959, and in 1974 a four-rank mixture was added to the Great.
It has Ventil chests and electro-pneumatic action.
In 1991, a second, 32-stop, three-manual instrument was added in a new rear gallery.
(photo) (photo) It is an historically oriented organ in the North German baroque style, built as Opus 33 by Wolff & Associés of Laval, Quebec.
The pipework is modelled on the Johan Niclas Cahman organ at Leufsta Bruk, Sweden from 1726/28.
The case, though, is a modern interpretation of north-European style that does not refer to any particular historic instrument.
The key action and stop action are both mechanical.
The two bellows can be pumped either by foot or with an electric blower.
Notably, the Wolff organ is tuned to a modified fifth comma meantone temperament devised by Harald Vogel following 17th-century Swedish theorists.
This same tuning has been used for the Arp Schnitger organ in Norden, Germany.
Knox College is a wholly postgraduate institution, conferring four master's degrees and two doctorate degrees.
It administers both academic programs for the general-interest study of theology and professional programs for ordained ministry.
The basic degree program comprises the degrees of Master of Divinity, Master of Theological Studies and Master of Religious Education.
The advanced degrees of Master of Arts in Theology, Master of Theology, Doctor of Philosophy in Theological Studies and Doctor of Ministry are awarded jointly with the Toronto School of Theology.
A number of faculty have served as Acting Principal during vacancies and sabbaticals.
The convener of the Board of Governors of Knox College is Peter Fullerton.
The Myanmar Institute of Theology (MIT) is a Protestant Christian Baptist seminary in Insein Township, Yangon, Myanmar (Burma).
The Judson Research Center and the Peace Studies Center are parts of the Myanmar Institute of Theology.
There is a library with 30,000 usable volumes and more than 30 periodical subscriptions for students and faculty.
The Myanmar Institute of Theology, originally known as Baptist Divinity School, was founded in June 1927, on Seminary Hill, Insein.
With only four students to begin with, the school used the facilities of the Karen Theological Seminary currently known as the Kayin Baptist Theological Seminary.
Shortly after its opening the school became affiliated with the Northern Baptist Theological Seminary in Chicago, Illinois.
This affiliation lasted until the Second World War.
The first president was Dr. W. E. Wiatt, an American missionary who served from 1927 to 1939.
The school was renamed in 1939 as the Willis and Orlinda Pierce Divinity School (1939-1949).
The second president of the school was Dr. C. F. Chaney who served from 1939 to 1941, when the Japanese occupied Burma.
In 1948, the school reopened with Thra Chit Maung as chairperson of the Curriculum Committee.
In 1952, with the arrival of Dr. Paul D. Clasper, Thra Chit Maung was made president and Dr. Clasper, vice-president.
The school was renamed in 1949 as the Burma Divinity School (1949-1976).
In 1955, it became affiliated with Central Baptist Theological Seminary of Kansas City, Kansas.
This affiliation lasted until 1960, when the school became an accredited member of the Association for Theological Education in South East Asia.
Since 1960, the school has been conferring degrees on its graduates.
Since 1966, with the departure of American Baptist missionaries from Myanmar, the school has been entirely staffed by nationals.
The seminary has faithfully carried out its education mission, adapting and responding to the challenges of the new day.
In 1976, the name was again changed to the Burma Institute of Theology (1976-1989) as it was deemed more appropriate to the situation in Burma.
In 1977, on Dr. Chit Maung’s retirement, Thramu Esther Lwin was made acting-president and then president from June 1978 to the end of 1983.
In January 1984, Rev.
Victor San Lone, who had been serving as general secretary of the Burma Baptist Convention, became president and served in that capacity until his sudden death in 1987.
Thramu Eh Wah, the vice-president, was made acting-president until March 1988, when she was officially appointed President.
The seminary’s name was changed to the Myanmar Institute of Theology in 1989, when the country changed its name to Myanmar.
Dr. Eh Wah retired in 1998.
The vice-principal Dr. Anna May Say Pa was elected the new principal.
Dr. Simon Pau Khan En succeeded in 2006 and when he retired in 2010 Dr. Samuel Ngun Ling became principal effective from 2010-2011 academic year.
Throughout its history, the school has served as an institution of higher theological education.
More than 20 ethnic groups and not less than 10 Christian denominations are represented each year in the student body.
Until 1962, only the B.Th.
That year the Bachelor of Religious Education program was introduced and in 1976, the B.D.
program was initiated.
In 1996, no new B.Th.
applicants were accepted for the B.Th.
program as the Board of Trustees had decided that the seminary would offer only graduate programs.
In 1997, the MIT started the M.Div, and M.T.S.
degree programs and replaced the B.D.
program.
March 1999 saw the last batch of B.Th.
graduates and the first batch of MTS graduates.
March 2000 marked the graduation of the first batch of the Master of Divinity class.
Year 2000 is a milestone for launching new programs such as Summer School, Summer Seminar and Bachelor of Arts in Religious Studies (BARS).
In 2004, MIT launched the Doctor of Ministry (D.Min) program in partnership with the Union Theological Seminary, Manila, the Philippines.
The program ended in 2008 when MIT started a new partnership for Doctor of Ministry program with the Central Baptist Theological Seminary, Kansas, USA, to take effect from 2010-2011 academic year.
Master of Ministry (M.Min) degree program was inaugurated in 2006 in respond to the needs of the churches and communities to promote a quality leadership in the church and society.
The year 2010 saw the opening of a new program called Master of Theological Librarianship (MTL) and the termination of the old program called Master of Theological Studies (MTS).
Finally MIT is fully determined to launch PhD degree program in 2014 in the commemoration of the 200th anniversary of the arrival of the American Baptist missionaries, Adoniram and Ann Judsons in the soil of Myanmar.
In response to the current education crisis of the country, MIT planned to offer a four-year B.A.
Religious Studies degree program with a Liberal Arts curriculum.
This degree program was officially accepted by the Board of Trustees on December 14, 1999.
The program was inaugurated in October 2000 introducing BARS degree curriculum.
In 2010, the name was changed to Liberal Arts Program (LAP) because it tended to focus on offering Master courses.
It is well known as BARS.
Year 3-BS-301:Intro to Biz Research BS-302:Marketing Essentials BS-303:Human Resource Mgt BS-304: Biz Accounting II BS-305: e-Biz Fundamentals Year 4- Project Management; Service Management Organizational Behavior; Biz Ethics & Laws; Production and Operation Mgt; Entrepreneurship Modern Short stories, Student Seminar, Novel; Advanced Grammar; Film; Non-fiction, Composition, Musical Drama At present MIT offers the following programs of study.
Myanmar Institute of Theology is accredited by the Association for Theological Education in South East Asia (ATESEA).
A Standing Advisory Council for Religious Education (SACRE) is a body which advises local authorities in England and Wales on the content which should be included in religious education teaching at state schools.
Each SACRE is composed Christians and other religious denominations, the Church of England (except in Wales), teachers' associations and elected councillors.
SACREs were introduced in 1988 by the Education Reform Act.
The Bremen clause ( ) is Article 141 of the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany, which states: The sentence there cited says: It limits the range of application of the constitutional (Basic Law) rule over religious education, making it possible to have other types of instruction in some areas of Germany.
A well-known example is the "instruction in Biblical history" in Bremen.
It is not religious education in the sense of the Basic Law, because its content is not accountable to a religious community; therefore it is not a "common affair" (res mixta).
is a private Jesuit research university in Japan, with its main campus located near Yotsuya station, in an area of Tokyo's Chiyoda Ward.
It is ranked as one of the top private universities in Japan.
It takes its name from the Greek Sophia meaning "wisdom".
The Japanese name, Jōchi Daigaku, literally means "University of Higher Wisdom".
It has an exchange program with many universities throughout the world, including Yale University, Sogang University and the University of Hong Kong.
The university was a men’s university in the past, but at present admits women; the proportion of men to women is now more or less equal.
Sophia’s alumni are referred to as "Sophians"; they include the 79th Japanese Prime Minister of Japan, Morihiro Hosokawa, a number of politicians represented in the Diet of Japan, and professors at various institutions.
Sophia University was founded by Jesuits in 1913.
It opened with departments of German Literature, Philosophy and Commerce, headed by its founder Hermann Hoffmann (1864–1937) as its first official president.
In 1932, a small group of Sophia students refused to salute the war dead at Yasukuni Shrine in the presence of a Japanese military attache, saying it violated their religious beliefs.
The military attache was withdrawn from Sophia as a result of this incident, damaging the university's reputation.
The Archbishop of Tokyo intervened in the standoff by permitting Catholic students to salute the war dead, after which many Sophia students, as well as Hermann Hoffmann himself, participated in rites at Yasukuni.
The Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples later issued the Pluries Instanterque in 1936, which encouraged Catholics to attend Shinto shrines as a patriotic gesture; the Vatican re-issued this document after the war in 1951.
Sophia University continued to grow by increasing the numbers of departments, faculty members and students, in addition to advancing its international focus by establishing an exchange program.
Many of its students studied at Georgetown University in the United States as early as 1935.
Sophia's junior college was established in 1973, followed by the opening of Sophia Community College in 1976.
With the founding of the Faculty of Liberal Arts in 2006, Sophia University presently holds 27 departments in its eight faculties.
Its current president is Yoshiaki Ishizawa.
Toshiaki Koso serves as head of its board of directors.
Since 2008, the Global Leadership Program was started for students from four Jesuit universities in East Asia: Ateneo de Manila University in the Philippines, Fu Jen Catholic University in Taiwan, Sogang University in South Korea, and Sophia University in Japan.
Sophia's main campus, at Yotsuya, is urban, consisting of roughly 25 large, modern buildings in the center of Tokyo, the world's largest city.
The majority of Sophia's 10,000 undergraduate students spend nearly all their time here.
The faculties of Humanities, Law, Foreign Studies, Economics, Liberal Arts, and Science and Technology have their home here, as do the main library, cafeteria, gymnasium, chapel, bookstore, and offices.
In April 2006, the Faculty of Comparative Culture (FCC), which had been located at the smaller Ichigaya campus, moved to the main Yotsuya campus and changed its name to the Faculty of Liberal Arts.
Nearly all of Sophia's foreign exchange students study at FLA.
The Tokyo office of the Council on International Educational Exchange (CIEE), the student exchange organization, which oversees roughly half of the international students, is also based on the main Yotsuya Campus.
The Shakujii (Tokyo) campus houses the Faculty of Theology.
The Hadano campus in Kanagawa Prefecture is home to the Sophia Junior College, as well as a number of seminar halls and athletics complexes.
Sophia University is considered one of the most selective universities among 730 private universities in Japan.
Steve Montenegro is an American politician from Litchfield Park, Arizona who has served as a member of the Arizona House of Representatives since January 2003.
He is a Hispanic Republican politician and current Speaker Pro Tempore.
He was first elected in 2008.
In 2014, Montenegro was chosen to serve as Majority Leader in the 2015-2017 session.
Representative Montenegro was born in El Salvador and at age four immigrated to the United States with his family.
He is a Magna Cum Laude graduate of Arizona State University with a B.S.
in Political Science.
He also holds an Associate of Arts in Theology from CBAN and Logos Christian University.
Steve currently works in the district office of U.S.
Congressman Trent Franks, where he assists with issues concerning the state department, immigration matters, and other federal issues that affect the west valley residents and businesses.
Steve Montenegro was elected to the Arizona House of Representatives in November 2008.
He represents Legislative District 12 (soon to be called District 13 after the new district lines are approved), which includes Goodyear, Litchfield Park, Avondale and also Luke Air Force Base.
Steve is currently serving as Speaker Pro-Tempore (the #4 ranking Republican) and sits on the Government, Higher Education Innovation and Reform, and Rules committees.
He is passionate about job creation, education issues, government transparency, protecting Second Amendment rights, and fiscal responsibility.
Since his election, he has won awards as a “Friend of the Family”, “Friend of the Taxpayer”, and "Conservative Hero" from the Arizona Liberty Project.
He has consistently been recognized as a defender of religious freedom.
In 2014 he introduced legislation that would ensure that clergy do not have to perform a marriage that violates their religious beliefs.
He was the only Hispanic in the Arizona legislature to vote for the highly controversial Support Our Law Enforcement and Safe Neighborhoods Act.
In response to accusations of racial profiling of Hispanics, he replied by saying that "This bill has nothing to do with race or profiling.
It has to do with the law.
We are seeing a lot of crime here in Arizona because of the open borders that we have."
Steve also serves as Associate Pastor at the Surprise Apostolic Assembly.
His faith and his family are core pillars to his purpose.
He strongly believes that our children are our future and he has made working with youth a priority in his life.
He travels the country speaking at youth conferences, camps, and events through his work with his church and the Messengers of Peace.
Steve has worked as a teacher[4] and currently serves on the Advisory Board of the Arizona Charter Academy.
His focus there has been providing counseling and guidance to young people and those in need.
In Christian theology, the Collegiants ( ; ), also called Collegians, were an eclectic religious sect, formed in 1619 among the Arminians and Anabaptists in Holland.
They were so called because of their colleges (meetings) held the first Sunday of each month, at which everyone had the same liberty of expounding the scripture, praying, etc.
The practice originated in 1619 when, after the Synod of Dort forced the States of Holland to dismiss clerics for encouraging refuge to individuals being persecuted for religious beliefs, three brothers of Warmond by the name of van der Kodde (or Codde)—Gijsbert, Jan Jacobsz, and Adriaen—decided to hold religious services of their own.
The sect began as a refuge from the perceived bitterness of the Calvinist and Arminian controversies of the day.
Their name is derived from the custom which they had of calling their communities "Colleges", which they were followed by Spener and the Pietists of Germany.
The Collegiants' first place of meeting was at the village of Warmond, at the residence of one of the brothers, but they shortly established their headquarters at Rijnsburg, a village 2.5 miles (4.0&nbsp;km) northwest from Leiden, and were hence called the Rijnsburgers (Dutch: Rijnsburger Collegianten).
There were also large communities of Collegiants in other places, for instance in Amsterdam and Hoorn.
In Amsterdam, the Collegiants ran an orphanage, 'De Oranje Appel', where the Dutch writer, Aagje Deken, was raised.
In Rijnsburg The Collegiants had a guest-quarter in the present-day alleyway of Kwakelsteeg called the Grote Huis (Large House).
Their principle from the beginning had been to admit all individuals to their society who were willing to acknowledge their belief in the Bible as inspired scripture, and to take it as a guide for Christian life; but no confession of faith was used, and the widest diversity of opinion was permitted.
Their form of worship consisted of prayer meetings held on Sundays and Wednesdays, at which any men of the community might pray and expound the scripture, but there was no regular organization of a ministry among them.
They recognized the necessity of baptism, which they administered by immersion, and twice a year they had a sacramental meeting extending over several days, similar to those of the Scottish Presbyterians.
Benedict Spinoza joined the study groups of the Collegiants while living near Leiden from 1660 to 1663.
It was during this period that he began working on his major book, The Ethics.
At the end of the 17th century, the opinions of Spinoza had obtained a strong hold upon the Collegiants, and caused a temporary division of their members into two parties, with separate places of meeting.
The leader of the Spinozist party was John Bredenburg, a merchant of Rotterdam, and he was opposed by a bookseller from Amsterdam, named Francis Couper, who attained some eminence by a work which he wrote against Bredenburg under the title Arcana Atheismi detecta ("The Secrets of Atheism Revealed"); he was also the publisher of the Bibliotheca Fratrum Polonorum seu Unitariorum.
The two parties were reunited on the death of these two controversialists, and attracted many to their society from other sects during the 18th century.
Even in the late 19th century, they still formed a considerable body in Holland and in the state of Hanover.
Their influence can still been seen in modern Rijnsburg, where the street Collegiantenstraat (Collegian Street) is named after them.
The Assembly of the Church of the Universe, an entheogen religion, was established by Walter Tucker in 1969 in the Canadian province of Ontario.
The Church uses marijuana as a sacrament and promotes nudity as a demonstration of human honesty.
The guiding rules of the church are variations on the Golden Rule: Although often quoting from the Bible and other scriptures, the church denies a direct connection to Christianity.
It also accepts as valid sources of inspiration ancient and modern sources such as the culture of Sumer, pagan holidays of the solstices, Canada Day, the Knights Templar, Chaldeans, Gnostic Gospels and the Desiderata.
Their sacrament is cannabis, and followers are encouraged to smoke it and use hemp products.
They draw on accounts in Genesis and associate the Tree of Life with the hemp plant, additionally quoting Psalm 22:30 and Revelation 22:2,14.
Nudity also finds its origins in Genesis, since Adam and Eve were unclothed until they ate from the Tree of Knowledge rather than the Tree of Life.
However, members are enjoined to cover their heads on any official occasion or when interacting with government agents.
Each person is encouraged to do so as God directs.
Nudism is no longer practiced in many communities within the Church of the Universe.
Since all members joining the church are simultaneously considered to be ordained as ministers, there is theoretically no distinction made between "clergy" and "ordinary members".
However, founder Walter Tucker and leading member Michael Baldasaro have partially developed a system of structured religious titles derived from Catholic Christianity, such as reverend, archbishop, bishop and abbot.
Tucker founded the church at a water-filled former quarry in Puslinch, Ontario in Wellington County between Hamilton and Guelph in 1969.
After he leased the site for a nominal fee, he renamed it Clearwater Abbey.
Clearwater Abbey's presence in the area was not without controversy, including allegations of noisy ceremonies on the property, the discovery nearby of human remains in 1975, the termination of its lease in 1982, and the final forcible removal of members from the property by police and sheriffs.
An attempt to relocate to a disused foundry, renamed Hempire Village, in Guelph in 1994 met a similar fate.
The church is now located in north Hamilton.
The church's ritual use of cannabis and its occasional practice of nudism has attracted attention from both the media and police.
Because of members regular possession and use of cannabis as a sacrament, legal charges of criminal possession and trafficking in marijuana laid against individual members are a common occurrence.
Frequent court challenges, based on charges or the exercise of political rights, have created an additional pair of intertwined activities: the Legal Self-Defence fund and the University of Universe.
Members who defend themselves or others in court are granted degrees from this non-accredited university, the level depending on the level of court involved.
In the past, both Baldasaro and Tucker have utilized political candidacy for various public and party offices as a platform for espousing their religious beliefs.
Stories in local newspapers such as The Hamilton Spectator and The Guelph Mercury on the church and its members do not remain online for long.
The following links have been chosen for their stability on the web.
Atheistic existentialism is a kind of existentialism which strongly diverged from the Christian existential works of Søren Kierkegaard and developed within the context of an atheistic worldview.
The philosophies of Søren Kierkegaard and Friedrich Nietzsche provided existentialism's theoretical foundation in the 19th century, although their differing views on religion proved essential to the development of alternate types of existentialism.
Atheistic existentialism was formally recognized after the 1943 publication of Being and Nothingness by Jean-Paul Sartre, and Sartre later explicitly alluded to it in Existentialism is a Humanism in 1946.
Atheistic existentialism refers to the exclusion of any transcendental, metaphysical, or religious beliefs from philosophical existentialist thought (e.g.
anguish or rebellion in light of human finitude and limitations).
Nevertheless, it shares elements with religious existentialism (e.g.
the Philosophy of Søren Kierkegaard) and with metaphysical existentialism (e.g.
through phenomenology and the works of Heidegger).
Atheistic existentialism confronts death anxiety without appealing to a hope of somehow being saved by a God, and often without any appeal to alternate forms of supernatural salvation such as reincarnation.
For some thinkers, existential malaise is mostly theoretical (as it is with Sartre) while others are quite affected by existential anguish (e.g.
Camus and his discussion of the Absurd and Nietzsche who articulated the will to power).
Jean-Paul Sartre is a well-known French philosopher who was concerned with human authenticity and individuality.
His novel Nausea is, in some ways, a manifesto of atheistic existentialism.
It deals with a dejected researcher (Antoine Roquentin) in an anonymous French town, where Roquentin becomes conscious of the fact that nature, as well as every inanimate object, are indifferent towards him and his tormented existence.
The existential angst experienced by the protagonist allows him to eventually understand that meaning exists only when he creates it for himself.
Sartre once said "existence precedes essence".
What he meant was that, first of all, man exists (e.g.
appears on the scene) and only afterwards defines himself.
If man, as the existentialist conceives him, is indefinable, it is because at first he is nothing.
Only afterward will he be something, and he himself will have made what he will be.
Thus, there is no human nature, since there is no God to conceive it.
Not only is man what he conceives himself to be, but he is also only what he wills himself to be after this thrust toward existence.
Sartre wrote other works in the spirit of atheistic existentialism (e.g.
the short stories in his 1939 collection The Wall).
Albert Camus writes of dualisms, between happiness and sadness, as well as life and death.
In The Myth of Sisyphus, such dualism becomes paradoxical, because humans greatly value their existence while at the same time being aware of their mortality.
Camus believes it is human nature to have difficulty reconciling these paradoxes, and indeed, he believed humankind must accept what he called "the Absurd".
On the other hand, Camus is not strictly an existential atheist because the acceptance of "the Absurd" implies neither the existence of God nor the nonexistence of God (compare Agnosticism).
Considered one of the founding fathers of Existentialism, German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche was a critic of Christian theology.
Arguing that morality itself is a human construct, as opposed to the laws of nature which are inherently morally-neutral, Nietzsche divided morality into two types: herd morality and master morality.
It is this first type, herd morality, which he associates with religion, specifically, with Christianity.
In his book, The Gay Science, Nietzsche utters his famous statement, "God is dead," which refers to his belief that morality can no longer be reasonably dictated by religion.
It is for this reason that many associate Nietzsche's philosophy with nihilism.
By contrast, others claim his assertion that nothing exists beyond this life merely requires us to rethink the tenets of morality, not to throw the concept of morality itself out the window.
Indeed, they argue that while Nietzsche believed humanity was on track toward nihilism, he was not directly advocating it as the direction in which we should head.
"Faith in the Earth" is the German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche's mytho-poetic formulation of his re-valued conception of our possible experience of divinity as contained in his book Thus Spoke Zarathustra.
Although not traditionally religious in the sense of positing the existence of a divine entity or entities, Nietzsche's way of thinking is just as far removed from atheistic materialism as it is from theistic spiritualism.
Closely related to the tradition of negative theology, Nietzsche confesses his own oblique form of belief, from his early poem "Dem unbekannten Gott," to the deep meaning of the Dionysian Dithyrambs.
Put simply, we speak least erroneously when we observe a strict adherence to the use of the word "divine" as a verb, and not a noun.
To divine is to orient without teleology: we can divine the way without knowing where we are going, while yet still being oriented.
Nietzsche's name for this uncanny experience is "amor fati," and it names not things, but a way things can change.
Thus the "faith" in Nietzsche's formula is not an epistemic state concerning supernatural entities or metaphysical propositions.
It is a fidelity to sublimated instinct - an "ethos" in the sense of knowing where you are coming from.
And all earthlings come from the Earth.
Religions have traditionally devalued "the world" and valued instead certain dreams of other so-called "perfect" worlds.
There is no planet in our solar system even close to supporting plant life, let alone our more complex forms.
To think that we can leave the Earth and go somewhere else is no less a form of reality-denying nihilism than traditional religious beliefs.
In either case, Nietzsche's warning that we maculate conception with the doctrine of immaculate conception resonates across all sorts of nihilisms, religious and secular.
"Remaining true to the Earth" means admitting that either we get things right on this planet, or we don't get things right at all.
The Earth represents our one and only window of opportunity, at the same time as it symbolizes all of our unknown higher potentials.
Neither spaceman nor God will come to save us.
But this is not a bleak dystopian materialism, because just as our simian ancestors couldn't realize that the development of their vocal cords (something they already had at least in rudimentary form) would open up those new dimensions of reality that we call language, civilization, and culture, just so we ourselves cannot yet get our minds around what we might be able to do already in rudimentary form - both with our own bodies and with the planet as a whole.
"Faith in the Earth" means always remembering that whatever developments might lay in store they will exist in this world, so their very possibility depends entirely upon each generation's maintenance of the biosphere, including the atmosphere.
An amazing future is depending upon us.
Thus Faith in the Earth takes the old conception of religious faith - that we are the love objects of a divinity - and replaces it with a higher, less servile conception of our proper dignity - that we are links in the chain connecting our simian ancestors with a higher type of descendant, or Übermensch.
We can no more understand what that will be than they understood us.
But we can understand that just as our arrival depended upon our simian ancestors, likewise the Übermensch is depending upon us.
This higher sense of dignity fits in with Nietzsche's general revaluation of those values distorted by religion's otherworldly delusions: love becomes love for Earthlings (both animals and Übermenschen included along of course with us); hope becomes hope for this Earth, and the hope that we Earthlings will not ruin it; charity becomes the overflowing virtue of generosity linked inextricably to amor fati and to creativity itself; and faith becomes remaining true to the Earth, and faithful to its unfathomed possibilities.
Harmukh (also known as Mount Haramukh or Harmukh mountain) is a mountain with a peak elevation of , in Ganderbal district of Jammu and Kashmir.
Harmukh is part of the Himalaya Range, and is located between Nallah Sindh in the south and Kishanganga Neelum River in the north, rising above Gangabal Lake in the vicinity of Kashmir valley.
It is mostly climbed from the northwestern side of Arin Bandipore.
Harmukh, with Gangbal Lake at its foot, is considered a sacred mountain by Hindus.
According to kashmiri hindu theology, Harmukh is the abode of Lord Shiva.
According to the legend of "Hurmukhuk Gosoni" <blockquote> Harmukh lies in the northwestern Himalayan Range.
The Karakoram Range borders it on the north and the Kashmir Valley on the south.
Melt waters from glaciers form Gangabal Lake which lies at its foot to the north east side and contribute significantly to the regional fresh-water supply, supporting irrigation through Nallah Sindh.
This Himalayan Range lies along the southern edge of the Eurasian tectonic plate and is made up of ancient sedimentary rocks (more than 390 million years old).
Those strata were folded and thrust-faulted, and granite masses were intruded, when the Indian plate collided with Eurasia, beginning more than 100 million years ago.
Harmukh means same on all sides.
It is notable for its local relief as it is a consistently steep pyramid, dropping sharply to the east and south, with the eastern slope the steepest.
Harmukh was first climbed by members of the Great Trigonometric Survey led by Thomas Montgomerie in 1856.
Montgomerie made the first survey of the Karakoram some to the north, and sketched the two most prominent peaks, labelling them K1 and K2.
Harmukh was later climbed by many other climbers.
Most Recently the Haramukh peak was climbed by a local group of climbers from Alpine Adventurers on september 20th 2015.
This was the first successful ascent to the eastern peak since past 35 years.
The policy of the Great Trigonometric Survey was to use local names for mountains wherever possible and K1 was found to be known locally as Masherbrum.
K2, however, appeared not to have acquired a local name, possibly due to its remoteness.
The mountain is not visible from Askole, the last village to the south, or from the nearest habitation to the north, and is only fleetingly glimpsed from the end of the Baltoro Glacier, beyond which few local people would have ventured.
Therefore, Harmukh is the mountain from which the world's second-highest mountain peak, K2, was discovered and the name given it by the Survey, K2, continues to be used.
The easiest route among the different routes of Harmukh is via Arin Bandipore, 47&nbsp;km motorable road from Srinagar to Arin and 18 kilometers of high altitude alpine tract leads to the base of Harmukh.
Another track leads from Naranag to the base of Harmukh at Gangabal Lake, but it is a steep climb at some places.
U Khandi (1868 &ndash; 14 January 1949) was a Burmese hermit known for his works on Buddhist pagodas and other religious buildings in Myanmar.
U Khandi maintained the Mandalay Hill and organized many religious activities for 40 years.
He was born Maung Po Maung in Ywathaya village, Yamethin District in 1868.
U Khandi became hermit in 1900 and meditated at the Mandalay Thakho hill and Shwe-myin-tin hill.
His goodwill organization completed construction and renovation of several building pagodas and religious buildings at hilltops, such as those on the Kyaiktiyo Pagoda.
His work was not only recognised by the Burmese people but also the colonial British government, which gave him and his followers’ special privileges such as free travel certificates and work permits.
U Khandi suffered minor paralysis for three years and died on 14 January 1949.
Two years later funeral celebrations were held and he was cremated.
"The Will to Believe" is a lecture by William James, first published in 1896, which defends, in certain cases, the adoption of a belief without prior evidence of its truth.
In particular, James is concerned in this lecture about defending the rationality of religious faith even lacking sufficient evidence of religious truth.
James states in his introduction: "I have brought with me tonight [...] an essay in justification of faith, a defense of our right to adopt a believing attitude in religious matters, in spite of the fact that our merely logical intellect may not have been coerced.
'The Will to Believe,' accordingly, is the title of my paper."
James' central argument in "The Will to Believe" hinges on the idea that access to the evidence for whether or not certain beliefs are true depends crucially upon first adopting those beliefs without evidence.
As an example, James argues that it can be rational to have unsupported faith in one's own ability to accomplish tasks that require confidence.
Importantly, James points out that this is the case even for pursuing scientific inquiry.
James then argues that like belief in one's own ability to accomplish a difficult task, religious faith can also be rational even if one at the time lacks evidence for the truth of one's religious belief.
James' "The Will to Believe" and William K. Clifford's essay "The Ethics of Belief" are touchstones for many contemporary debates over evidentialism, faith, and overbelief.
James' "The Will to Believe" consists of introductory remarks followed by ten numbered but not titled sections.
In his introductory remarks, James characterizes his lecture by stating that he had "brought with me tonight [...] an essay in justification of faith, a defense of our right to adopt a believing attitude in religious matters, despite our merely logical intellect may not have been coerced."
"The Will to Believe", accordingly, is the title of my paper."
At the end of his introductory remarks, James leads into his first section by stating that he "must begin by setting up some technical distinctions".
In section I, James embarks upon the task of defining a number of important terms he will be relying upon throughout the lecture: In section II, James begins by saying he will then consider "the actual psychology of human opinion".
Here James considers and largely agrees with the criticism of Pascal's Wager that we either should not or are unable to believe or disbelieve at will.
That is, James here seems to reject doxastic voluntarism, "the philosophical doctrine according to which people have voluntary control over their beliefs".
In section III, however, James qualifies his endorsement of this criticism of Pascal's Wager by arguing that "it is only our already dead hypotheses that our willing nature is unable to bring to life again".
By which James means that it is only things we already disbelieve that we are unable to believe at will.
In his very brief section IV, James introduces the main thesis of the work: However, instead of providing an argument for this thesis, James quickly ends this section by stating that he must still "indulge in a bit more of preliminary work".
In section V, James makes a distinction between a skepticism about truth and its attainment and what he calls "dogmatism": "that truth exists, and that our minds can find it".
Concerning dogmatism, James states that it has two forms; that there is an "absolutist way" and an "empiricist way" of believing in truth.
James states: "The absolutists in this matter say that we not only can attain to knowing truth, but we can know when we have attained to knowing it, while the empiricists think that although we may attain it, we cannot infallibly know when."
James then goes on to state that "the empiricist tendency has largely prevailed in science, while in philosophy the absolutist tendency has had everything its own way".
James ends section V by arguing that empiricists are really no more tentative about their beliefs and conclusions than the absolutists: "The greatest empiricists among us are only empiricists on reflection: when left to their instincts, they dogmatize like infallible popes.
When the Cliffords tell us how sinful it is to be Christians on such "insufficient evidence", insufficiency is really the last thing they have in mind.
For them the evidence is absolutely sufficient, only it makes the other way.
They believe so completely in an anti-Christian order of the universe that there is no living option: Christianity is a dead hypothesis from the start."
James begins section VI with the following question: "But now, since we are all such absolutists by instinct, what in our quality of students of philosophy ought we to do about the fact?
Shall we espouse and endorse it?"
He then answers: "I sincerely believe that the latter course is the only one we can follow as reflective men.
[...] I am, therefore, myself a complete empiricist so far as my theory of human knowledge goes."
James ends section VI by stressing what he finds to be the "great difference" merit of the empiricist way over the absolutist way: "The strength of his system lies in the principles, the origin, the terminus a quo [the beginning point] of his thought; for us the strength is in the outcome, the upshot, the terminus ad quem [the end result].
Not where it comes from but what it leads to is to decide.
It matters not to an empiricist from what quarter a hypothesis may come to him: he may have acquired it by fair means or by foul; passion may have whispered or accident suggested it; but if the total drift of thinking continues to confirm it, that is what he means by its being true."
James begins section VII by stating that there is "one more point, small but important, and our preliminaries are done".
However, James in fact gives in this section a crucial bit of argumentation: One possible way of interpreting James' words here is to take him to be arguing that while we should avoid falsehood, it is no vice to err if we do so while pursuing truth.
That is, James is steadfastly agreeing that we must withhold belief until we possess sufficient evidence when that evidence is forthcoming.
Not to do so would be to wholly disregard the duty to avoid falsehood.
However, as James is about to argue, where the truth of a belief only comes about after something is believed or where evidence regarding a belief's truth or falsity is only accessible to believers, the pursuit of truth seems to require us to believe upon insufficient evidence.
In section VIII, James finally moves beyond what he considers mere preliminaries.
Here James first identifies areas of belief where he holds that to believe without evidence would be unjustified: "Wherever the option between losing truth and gaining it is not momentous, we can throw the chance of gaining truth away, and at any rate save ourselves from any chance of believing falsehood, by not making up our minds at all till objective evidence has come.
In scientific questions, this is almost always the case [...] The questions here are always trivial options, the hypotheses are hardly living (at any rate not living for us spectators), the choice between believing truth or falsehood is seldom forced."
James concludes this section by asking us to agree "that wherever there is no forced option, the dispassionately judicial intellect with no pet hypothesis, saving us, as it does from dupery at any rate, ought to be our ideal".
In section IX, James moves to investigate whether there are areas of belief where belief without evidence would be justified.
James gives self-fulfilling beliefs as one example of such beliefs: From examples like these, James concludes: "There are, then, cases where a fact cannot come at all unless a preliminary faith exists in its coming.
And where faith in a fact can help create the fact, that would be an insane logic which should say that faith running ahead of scientific evidence is the "lowest kind of immorality" into which a thinking being can fall."
James begins section X with the thesis that he takes himself to have already proven: "In truths dependent on our personal action, then, faith based on desire is certainly a lawful and possibly an indispensable thing."
James then goes on to argue that, like the examples he gave in section IX, religious belief is also the sort of belief that depends on our personal action and therefore can also justifiably be believed through a faith based on desire: Although James does not here explain the way in which the truth or evidence regarding religious belief depends upon our first having religious belief, he does argue that it is a part of the religious belief itself that its own truth or the evidence of its own truth depends upon our first believing it.
In the preface to the published version of "The Will to Believe" James offers a different argument for the way in which the evidence for religion depends upon our belief.
There he contends that it is through the failure or thriving of communities of religious believers that we come to have evidence of the truth of their religious beliefs.
In this way, to acquire evidence for religious belief, we must first have believers who adopt such belief without sufficient evidence.
Much later in life, in his "Pragmatism: A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking" lectures, James also mentions the possibility that God's existence may actually depend upon our belief in his existence.
The doctrine James argues for in "The Will to Believe" appears often in both his earlier and later work.
James himself changed the name of the doctrine several times.
First appearing as "the duty to believe", then "the subjective method", then "the will to believe", it was finally recast by James as "the right to believe".
Whatever the name, the doctrine always concerned the rationality of believing without evidence in certain instances.
Specifically, James is defending the violation of evidentialism in two instances: After arguing that for hypothesis venturing and with self-fulfilling beliefs a person is rational to believe without evidence, James argues that a belief in a number of philosophical topics qualifies as one or other of his two allowed violations of evidentialism (e.g.
free will, God, and immortality).
The reason James takes himself as able to rationally justify positions often not believed to be verifiable under any method, is how important he thinks believing something can be for the verifying of that belief.
That is to say, in these cases James is arguing that the reason evidence for a belief seems to be unavailable to us is because the evidence for its truth or falsity comes only after it is believed rather than before.
For example, in the following passage James utilizes his doctrine to justify a belief that "this is a moral world": <blockquote>It cannot then be said that the question, "Is this a moral world?"
is a meaningless and unverifiable question because it deals with something non-phenomenal.
Any question is full of meaning to which, as here, contrary answers lead to contrary behavior.
And it seems as if in answering such a question as this we might proceed exactly as does the physical philosopher in testing an hypothesis.
[...] So here: the verification of the theory which you may hold as to the objectively moral character of the world can consist only in this—that if you proceed to act upon your theory it will be reversed by nothing that later turns up as your action's fruits; it will harmonize so well with the entire drift of experience that the latter will, as it were, adopt it.
[...] If this be an objectively moral universe, all acts that I make on that assumption, all expectations that I ground on it, will tend more and more completely to interdigitate with the phenomena already existing.
[...] While if it be not such a moral universe, and I mistakenly assume that it is, the course of experience will throw ever new impediments in the way of my belief, and become more and more difficult to express in its language.
Epicycle upon epicycle of subsidiary hypothesis will have to be invoked to give to the discrepant terms a temporary appearance of squaring with each other; but at last even this resource will fail.
(—William James, "The Sentiment of Rationality")</blockquote> The doctrine James developed in his "The Will to Believe" lecture was later extended by his protégé F.C.S.
Schiller in his lengthy essay "Axioms as Postulates".
In this work, Schiller downplays the connection between James' doctrine and religious positions like God and immortality.
Instead, Schiller stresses the doctrine's ability to justify our beliefs in the uniformity of nature, causality, space, time, and other philosophic doctrines that have generally been considered to be empirically unverifiable.
James' doctrine has taken a lot of criticism.
In 1907 University of Michigan Professor Alfred Henry Lloyd published "The Will to Doubt" in response, claiming that doubt was essential to true belief.
C.S.
Peirce ends his 1908 paper "A Neglected Argument for the Reality of God" complaining generally about what other philosophers had done with pragmatism, and ends with a criticism specifically of James' will to believe: <blockquote>It seems to me a pity they [pragmatists like James, Schiller] should allow a philosophy so instinct with life to become infected with seeds of death in such notions as that of the unreality of all ideas of infinity and that of the mutability of truth, and in such confusions of thought as that of active willing (willing to control thought, to doubt, and to weigh reasons) with willing not to exert the will (willing to believe).< <blockquote>Instead of admitting that some traditional beliefs are comforting, James argued that "the risk of being in error is a very small matter when compared with the blessing of real knowledge", and implied that those who did not accept religious beliefs were cowards, afraid of risking anything: "It is like a general informing soldiers that it is better to keep out of battle forever than to risk a single wound" (Section VII).
James' appeal depends entirely on blurring the distinction between those who hold out for 100 percent proof in a matter in which any reasonable person rests content with, let us say, 90 percent, and those who refuse to indulge in a belief which is supported only by the argument that after all it could conceivably be true.< Some specific objections to James' doctrine include: James addresses objection (1) in a footnote of his "The Will to Believe" essay where he argues that for a chemist to devote years of his life to verifying a hypothesis, the chemist must also believe his hypothesis.
However, the chemist adopting a hypothesis to guide years of study is certainly only a special case of hypothesis adoption.
A more general defense of (1) could also be constructed from James' behaviorist theory of belief.
James takes believing a proposition to consist in acting as if it were true, so if James considers testing a proposition as acting as if it were true to see if it leads to successful action, then James would be committed to seeing an act of hypothesis adoption as necessarily an act of belief adoption as well.
Objection (2) seems to presuppose the ability to will a belief.
James believed that when evidence was insufficient to determine the truth or falsehood of a proposition, this uncertainty allowed a person to be able to will a belief by acting as if that belief were true.
Objection (2) warrants further discussion over "voluntarism".
Objection (3) strikes at James' pragmatic theory of truth, which his will to believe doctrine seems to presume.
James' main defense of his theory of truth is his claim that no other account of "truth" or "correspondence" or "agreement with reality" can be given except for the pragmatist account.
James sees traditional accounts of truth as explaining one mysterious term ("truth") with nothing more than equally mysterious terms (e.g.
"correspondence").
The only sense James believes we can make of the concept of "truth" is if we count as true the beliefs that lead us to perform actions that "agree" with the world.
Those that fit with the world will lead to successful action, those that do not agree with the world will entail actions that lead to failure (e.g.
if one believes he can fly, he'll jump off a building).
With truth analyzed in this way, James sees no reason to restrict success to predictive success (objection (2)) and is fully comfortable with the fact that certain beliefs will lead one person to success in the world while failing someone else (objection (3)).
However, this reply to both objections is not open to James since he explicitly claims that his will to believe doctrine does not depend on his pragmatist theory of truth.
St. Mark's College is a Roman Catholic theological college affiliated to the University of British Columbia.
It was founded in 1956 by the Congregation of St.
Basil and is next to Corpus Christi College.
Together they form one community as the president of Corpus Christi is also the principal of St. Mark's.
The college is situated on the University Endowment Lands on West Point Grey and within its grounds is the local parish church, St. Mark's Chapel.
In 1956, St Marks College was founded by the Congregation of St.
Basil when it received its charter from the Parliament of British Columbia.
The Basilian Fathers also founded the University of St. Michael's College in the University of Toronto and Assumption University in Windsor, Ontario.
When St. Mark's was founded it was immediately affiliated with the University of British Columbia.
The college, because it was next to Corpus Christi College and had St. Mark's Chapel within its grounds, became a centre for Catholics on the Vancouver campus of the university.
While the Basilian Fathers supported college, Fr.
Jim Hanrahan CSB (the longest serving principal of the college) taught in the university's Department of History.
The south wing of St. Mark’s is named Hanrahan Hall after him.
In 1998, construction of St. Mark’s College was completed and the local Catholic parish moved there.
The registrar of the college, Fr.
Klosterman CSB also served as parish priest of the area.
In 2005, the Basilian fathers left the college and parish.
The college appointed its first lay Principal, Dr. David Sylvester, that year.
On 15 October 2013, the principal of St. Mark's College, Mark Hagemoen was appointed as the bishop of the Diocese of Mackenzie-Fort Smith.
On 16 June 2014, Dr Peter M. Meehan was appointed as the new principal of St. Mark's College and the President of Corpus Christi.
The college is located in the northeast of the university's Vancouver campus.
The buildings include the Dr. John Micallef Memorial Library, various classrooms, student lounges and study spaces, a cafe, and the college chapel, as well as administrative areas for student advisors and faculty members.
The college, through its charter, is able to offer Bachelors, Masters and Doctoral degree in theology.
The College currently offers Masters and Masters of Arts in Theological Studies, Educational Leadership, Pastoral Studies, Religious Education.
A diploma is available for each program.
As well, it is in charge of the academic formation for the first permanent diaconate program in the Archdiocese of Vancouver.
Each year at its graduation ceremony, the College also grants an honorary doctorate.
The only degree granting Catholic College in British Columbia and the only graduate level Catholic College, it offers a variety of lecture series like Carr Lecture series, the Chancellor's lecture series, an ongoing Symposium, as well as lectures from its faculty to the wider community.
The Dr. John Micallef Memorial Library not only serves the college but is shared with Corpus Christi College.
It is a member of the Vancouver School of Theology.
It shares online resources with Regent College, Vancouver College, and the Carey Theological College.
Lewis Fry DL, (16 April 1832– 10 September 1921) was a Quaker, lawyer, philanthropist and a Liberal and later Liberal and Unionist politician who sat in the House of Commons in three spells between 1878 and 1900.
Fry was the son of Joseph Fry (1795–1879) and his wife Mary Anne Swaine (1897-1896) and was a member of the Fry family known for their chocolate business.
He was articled to a Quaker Solicitor, Joseph Bevan Braithwaite, who had also trained his elder bother, Edward Fry.
He was admitted in 1854 and practiced in Bristol until he entered Parliament.
Fry was Liberal Member of Parliament (MP) for Bristol between 1878 and 1885, and a Liberal and Unionist for Bristol North between 1885–1892 and 1895–1900.
He was sworn a member of the Privy Council after the accession of King Edward VII on 24 January 1901 and was appointed a deputy lieutenant of Gloucestershire shortly thereafter.
He was Chairman of Parliamentary Committee on Town Holdings, 1886–1892 and author of two reports of same.
Fry served on Bristol Town Council from 1866 to 1884 When School Boards were introduced, Lewis Fry was elected the first Chair of the Bristol School Board.
He drew up an influential scheme for religious education in elementary schools.
He supported a number of Bristol public institutions: the School of Science and Art, the Museum and Library and the Evening Classes Association and the local branch of the Charities Organization Society.
He was on the Council of Clifton College and was President of the High School for Girls.
He served on the Council of the Law Society.
Fry is considered to be an important figure in the creation and early development of the University of Bristol.
He was the first chairman of the Council of the University of Bristol.
An annual public lecture at the University is his memorial.Lewis Fry Memorial Lecture: This Lectureship was established in 1924 by the surviving children of the late The Right Hon.
Lewis Fry, P.C., first Chairman of the University Council.
The endowment provides for an annual lecture to be given by a scholar of distinction on subjects connected with the Fine Arts, History, Literature, Music, Drama, Philosophy, Theology or Education.< One of his chief pleasures in life was his interest in art.
He was himself and amateur painter.
On 29 September 1858, he married Elizabeth Pease Gibson, the only daughter of the banker Francis Gibson of Saffron Walden, Essex.
They had three sons and two daughters.< </ref> She died in 1870.
He lived at Goldney Hall in Clifton.
It is now a Hall of Residence of the University.
He died shortly after celebrating his 89th Birthday.
The Lewis Fry Memorial Lecture was established in 1924 by his surviving children.
The endowment provides for an annual lecture to be given by a scholar of distinction on subjects connected with the Fine Arts, History, Literature, Music, Drama, Philosophy, Theology or Education.
Kotel Dadon ( ; born December 12, 1967) is Croatian rabbi of the Bet Israel community in Zagreb.
Da-Don, who was born and educated in Israel, settled in Zagreb in 1998.
He was the chief rabbi of Croatia from 1998 to 2006.
Dadon was born in Jerusalem, to Moroccan Jewish parents.
He finished his religious education at the Yeshivat HaKotel in Jerusalem, where he studied from 1987 until 1991.
From 1991 until 1995, Dadon studied and finished rabbinic education at the rabbinical academy of Midrash Sephardi in Jerusalem, where he received his diploma from pedagogy.
Dadon graduated from the Bar-Ilan University in Ramat Gan, where he studied from 1991 until 1995.
He joined the Israel Bar Association in 1995.
Dadon first visited Croatia in 1993, when he was sent to Zagreb by his university rabbi, with the duty of leading religious services for the Jewish community in Zagreb.
He visited Zagreb again, in 1994.
In 1995 he was invited to Zagreb as a rabbi of the Jewish community.
After finishing his studies, Dadon moved to Zagreb in 1998.
In the same year he was named the chief rabbi of Croatia.
This position had been vacant for more than fifty years, as there were no rabbis in Croatia since Dadon's predecessor Miroslav Šalom Freiberger died as a victim of the Holocaust in 1943.
Dadon held that position until 2006, when the council of the Jewish Community in Zagreb refused to extend his contract, and instead appointed new rabbi Zvi Eliezer Alonie.
After that, there was a schism within the community.
Da-Don filed a lawsuit at the municipal court in Zagreb, where he sought his return to the position of chief rabbi, with the salary of 15,000 HRK.
The group supported by Da-Don: Ivo Goldstein and Slavko Goldstein, split from the Jewish Community of Zagreb led by Ognjen Kraus and Jakov Bienenfeld, and established a new Jewish community, Bet Israel, also based in Zagreb.
Bet Israel was officially recognized on 21 July 2006 by the European rabbinical conference, and that same year Ivo Goldstein was elected as their first president.
The Jewish Community of Zagreb appointed Zvi Eliezer Alonie as their new rabbi.
Relations between the two Jewish communities in Zagreb have remained strained, primarily due to unresolved property issues.
Dadon worked as a professor of rabbinic studies at the Budapest University of Jewish Studies in Budapest.
In 2006 Da-Don completed his doctoral studies on Jewish theology.
Since 2006, Dadon teaches at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb.
He also teaches at the Croatian Military Academy.
Dadon married Agnes Eva Dadon in 1995, who is of Hungarian-Jewish descent.
Together they have four children, Emanuel-Israel, Aviad-David, Jonathan-Moshe and Simcha-Zsuzsi.
In 2009 his eldest son, Emanuel-Israel, celebrated his Bar Mitzvah at the Bet Israel in Zagreb, second Bar Mitzvah celebrated in Croatia since the Holocaust.
Dadon is a Croatian citizen and is fluent in Croatian.
Dadon is the author of “Judaism: Way of Life, Philosophy and Theology.”
Jean-Joseph Faict (22 May 1813 – 4 January 1894) was the twentieth Bishop of Bruges.
Faict was born in the coastal village of Leffinge, at the time when the whole of West Flanders was part of the French empire.
His father was a brewer.
He studied at the Seminary in Roeselare (philosophy) and then at the Great Seminary in Bruges (theology), before progressing to the Catholic University in Louvain.
He was ordained into the priesthood on 8 June 1838.
In 1939 he took the position of professor in church history, moral theology and physics at the Great Seminary in Bruges, before taking over as head of the Philosophic Seminary in Roeselare in 1849.
In February 1864 he was appointed Coadjutor bishop under who died the next month.
Faict was consecrated Bishop of Bruges on 18 October 1864.
He took as his motto, "In fide et caritate" ("In faith and love").
In 1869-1870 he participated in the First Vatican Council before it was cut short by the arrival in Rome of the Italian army.
Faict's term as bishop lasted three decades, during a period of social and political turbulence in many parts of western Europe including Belgium.
Within the church the pope issued the Papal encyclical Quanta Cura in 1864.
In it, the pope set his face, and that of the church, against change.
The church became uncompromisingly conservative during the lengthy pontificate of Pius IX, and Faict followed the papal guidelines during his own time as bishop.
In political terms the Liberal Party was in the ascendancy, which meant continuing pressure for further secularization of politics and society in the Belgian state, and removal of the church from quasi-civil functions.
There were new laws on church property and cemeteries.
Religious education in schools ceased to be compulsory.
Within the church community this triggered a resurgence of ultramontane pressures which the bishops themselves tended to reflect.
Bishop Faict was strident in his defence of church privileges, although his actions were frequently milder and more pragmatic than his rhetoric.
Where politics became more polarised, Faict sided with the Conferation of Catholic parties, becoming an influential supporter.
He developed his own network of excellent political and press contacts.
Within his own traditionally conservative diocese of Bruges many local councils turned in with Catholic majorities in 1876 local elections, something that was repeated at a national level in 1884.
Faict's period as bishop was one of strong growth for the church in his own region.
He was able to ordain almost a thousand new priests during a term in office of slightly under thirty years.
He personally prioritised the training of priests, and sent many on to pursue further study at Leuven/Louvain or Rome.
He organised annual retreats for the priests serving under him, and always attended these himself.
Among the faithful he was a strong supporter of the establishment of devotional groups.
He was a particular supporter of Marian-Christian spirituality.
He supported organisations sponsoring youth activities.
He was enthusiastic in his encouragement of processions, pilgrimages, popular missions and other activities likely to build popular Christian belief.
Regarding the social problems he believed in the importance of charity.
He was a great supporter of the Sint Vincent and Francis Xavier associations.
From 1866 he encouraged the guilds of associations of Christian workers.
Blessed Bartholomew of Braga, later known as Bartolomeus a Martyribus (Bartolomeu dos Mártires in Portuguese), out of veneration for the church in which he was baptized, was a Portuguese Dominican theologian and Archbishop of Braga.
Bartolomeu Fernandes was born at Verdela, near Lisbon in May 1514, of humble parentage.
He entered the Dominican Order on 11 November 1527, and was professed 20 November 1529.
On the completion of his studies, he taught philosophy in the monastery at Lisbon, and then for about twenty years theology in various houses of his order.
In 1551 he received the Master's degree at the provincial chapter of Salamanca in Spain.
While teaching theology in the monastery of Batalha, he was summoned to Évora by the Infante Dom Luis to undertake the religious education of his son, Dom António, who was entering the ecclesiastical state.
He devoted two years to this task.
In 1558, against his own desires, and only out of obedience to his provincial superior, Luis of Granada, he accepted the appointment to the archepiscopal see of Braga, for which he had been chosen by Queen Catherine, and in 1559 received episcopal consecration.
He devoted himself to the duties of his new office.
On the resumption of the General Council of Trent in 1561, Bartholomew repaired to the council and took part in the last sessions.
He was highly esteemed among the Fathers of the council, both on account of his theological learning and the holiness of his life, and exercised great influence in the discussions, particularly with regard to the decrees on the reform of ecclesiastical life.
On the conclusion of the council he returned, in February, 1564, to his see, and in 1566 held an important provincial synod in which decrees were passed for the restoration of ecclesiastical discipline and the elevation of the moral life of clergy and people (Concilium provinciale Bracarense quartum, Braga, 1567).
The archbishop now devoted himself to the task of carrying out the reforms of the Council of Trent as well as the decrees of his own provincial synod.
A great famine and a visitation of the plague revealed the depths of his charity.
After repeated requests, having received, on 20 February 1582, permission to resign his see, he withdrew to the monastery of his order at Viana do Castelo, to prepare in solitude for the end.
He died at Viana do Castelo on 16 July 1590.
In the interests of Christian life and the promotion of ecclesiastical discipline, he wrote All these writings have been frequently republished and translated into several languages.
A collective edition is: "Opera omnia cura et studio Malachiae d'Inguinbert, archiepisc.
In 2 parts, Rome, 1734–35).
In 1845 Pope Gregory XVI declared him Venerable, and on 4 November 2001, Pope John Paul II beatified him.
Austin M. Woodbury (1899 near Spencer, in the Hawkesbury Valley of New South Wales &ndash; 1979) was an Australian Catholic philosopher.
Woodbury joined the Marist Fathers and gained a doctorate in Rome, studying under the scholastic philosopher Reginald Garrigou-Lagrange.
In 1945, he founded the Aquinas Academy in Sydney, a school of philosophy aimed mainly at lay people.
He headed the Academy until 1975, teaching a strictly scholastic philosophy based on the teaching of Thomas Aquinas.
A combative personality, he was often in conflict with the atheist Professor of Philosophy at the University of Sydney, John Anderson, whom Austin believed was corrupting Sydney's youth.
The Aquinas Academy was set up under the auspices of the Australian Province of the Marist Fathers by Fr Austin Woodbury SM in March 1945.
The Academy began as a centre for the study of Philosophy and Theology in the Thomistic tradition.
For some twenty-nine years it continued in this capacity under Fr Woodbury's guidance, in premises at the back of St Patrick's Church, Gloucester Street, in The Rocks (Sydney, NSW).
For a short while the Academy offered a License in Philosophy under accreditation from the University of St Thomas in Rome.
Since its inception, a number of qualified priests, religious and laity have been part of the lecturing staff.
The Academy was one of the pioneers of Catholic adult education in Australia.
Since 1975, the Academy has increasingly focused on general adult education in the faith.
Perhaps the most popular of the programs mounted was the Christian Growth Program, offering basic education in theology, morality, psychology and spirituality.
During this time the Academy also developed a State-accredited program for religious education teachers, offering a Certificate in Religious Studies.
In these years, also, a wide array of seminars, special lecture series, summer schools and workshops were offered – with presenters from Australia and overseas.
All these programs were designed to contribute in some way to adult education in the faith.
One of the features of the Academy during these latter years has been its mobility – programs have been offered at various centres in and around Sydney and along the eastern seaboard.
Former Principals, Fr Kevin Bates SM and Fr John Thornhill SM with one of the Students to graduate with a Licentiate from the University of St Thomas through the Aquinas Academy, Sr Celestine Pooley RSM Following the major renovations to the St Patrick’s Church and the surrounding buildings (1998-2001), the Aquinas Academy is now housed on the third and fourth floors – Levels 5 and 7 – of the building at 141 Harrington Street that for many years was St Patrick's Business College.
The first and second floors of that same building are used for parish meeting rooms and offices.
Aquinas Academy continues a significant commitment to adult education in the faith, still under the auspices of the Australian Province of the Marist Fathers.
Together with the Marists, a number of other priests, religious and laity continue to serve the community through the Academy.
Aquinas Academy today continues its commitment to adult education within the Catholic tradition to assist people seeking to develop a mature faith.
Situated in Sydney's central business district, the Academy aims most particularly to become a school of spirituality in the heart of the city.
Fr Michael Whelan SM is currently the Director of the Academy.
Sr Marie Biddle RSJ is a Lecturer and Coordinator of the Spirituality Program.
There are a number of other visiting and occasional Lecturers and Presenters of various programs, from Australia and overseas.
David Robert Haas, (born in 1957 in Bridgeport, Michigan), is an American author and composer of contemporary Catholic liturgical music.
His best known songs include "Blest Are They," "You Are Mine," "We Are Called," "We Have Been Told," "Now We Remain," "The Name of God," "Song of the Body of Christ", and "Glory to God."
Haas studied vocal music performance and conducting at Central Michigan University, and has his degree in theology and music from the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minnesota.
In addition to serving in parish liturgical ministry in Michigan, Iowa and Minnesota over the years, he also served as composer-in-residence at the St. Paul Seminary School of Divinity in St. Paul, Minnesota; and was also campus minister and artist-in-residence at Benilde-St. Margaret's in St. Louis Park, Minnesota, where he taught in the music and theology departments.
In 1999, Haas began the program MUSIC MINISTRY ALIVE!, , a five-day liturgical program for youth and adult leaders that takes place on the campus of St. Catherine University in St. Paul, Minnesota.
He has produced over forty five original collections and recordings of liturgical music.
His printed and recorded collections of music are published with GIA Publications in Chicago, with the exception of a handful of pieces that are published by OCP Publications.
He is also the author of over 20 books on the topics of liturgy, music ministry, spirituality, religious education and youth ministry, published with Franciscan Media, Liturgy Training Publications, Crossroad Publishing Company, GIA Publications, and St. Mary's Press).
His music is sung throughout the world and appears in hymnals of various Christian denominations, and has been translated into Spanish and French.
Years ago, Haas was a leading voice in the liturgical and musical aspects of the implementation of the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults (RCIA), active as a team member for the North American Forum on the Catechumenate, and as a composer creating ritual music for the RCIA rites.
Haas is also known for his early collaborations with Michael Joncas and Marty Haugen, and for many years the three of them were an important influence on liturgical music in the English-speaking world, and together they traveled throughout the United States and beyond for many years, presenting concerts and workshops.
They remain friends to this day.
Haas presently continues traveling as a speaker, workshop leader, and concert performer alone, and often with his friend and colleague, Lori True (whose music is also published by GIA).
He formerly wrote a monthly column for Ministry and Liturgy magazine entitled, "Sung Prayer".
Haas lives in Eagan, Minnesota, where he is the director of the Emmaus Center for Music, Prayer and Ministry.
In the fall of 2011, Haas began work at Cretin-Derham Hall High School in St. Paul, Minnesota.
He is a member of the Campus Ministry team there and is leader of the liturgical choir that sings at prayer gatherings throughout the school year.
Haas is active as a cantor at St. Cecilia's Parish in St. Paul.
Haas composes contemporary Catholic liturgical music.
Following the movement that began with the St. Louis Jesuits in the 1970s and 1980s, Haas, like Marty Haugen, Michael Joncas and Dan Schutte became one of the most prolific composers of the genre during the period of rapid change following Vatican II.
Their hymns, songs, and liturgies are published by GIA Publications in their Gather hymnals, and are also found in other hymnals used by the Catholic Church in the United States and several Protestant denominations.
For example, his "You Are Mine," "We Are Called," "Now We Remain," and "Blest Are They" are in the Evangelical Lutheran Worship (ELW) hymnal used by the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America (ELCA).
Varanasi, also known as Kashi, is considered as the religious capital of Hinduism.
In the Hindu faith, it is the holiest of all of its cities; the four dhams (abode of gods) in the four cardinal directions of the country – Badrinath in the north, Puri in the east, Dwarka in the west and Rameshwaram in the south – are all represented in the city in "archetypal forms" as the presiding deities at Maha Ghat, Rama Ghat, Shankudhara Ghat, and Mir Ghat respectively.
Other Hindu holy places, such as the Kedarnath at Kedar Ghat, Mathura at Bakaruia Kund or Nakhi Ghat, Prayag (Allahadbad) at Dashahvamedha Ghat, Kamakhya (Assam) at Kamachha, Kurukshetra at Kurkukshtrea Kund near Asi, and Lake Manasarovar at Mansarovar near Shyameshvara are a part of the city's religious and cultural heritage.
In the sacred geography of India Varanasi is known as the "microcosm of India".
In addition to its 3,300 Hindu religious places, Varanasi has 12 churches, three Jain mandirs, nine Buddhist shrines, three Gurudwaras (Sikh shrines), and 1,388 Muslim holy places.
As the home to the Kashi Vishwanath Temple Jyotirlinga, the city is especially sacred for followers of Shaivism.
Kashi is also a Shakti Peetha, where the temple to goddess Vishalakshi stands, believed to be the location where the goddess Sati's earrings fell.
Hindus of the Shakti sect make a pilgrimage to the city because they regard the Ganges itself to be the goddess Shakti.
Adi Shankara wrote his commentaries on Hinduism here, and his efforts lead to the great Hindu revival as at that time Buddhism was widely practiced.
Approximately 250,000 Muslims reside in Varanasi.
In 2001, they made up approximately 18% of the population of Varanasi district, and 29.7% of the city's population.
Muslim settlement and influence began here following the invasion by Mohammad Ghaznavi (1021–1030 AD) and subsequently there was a doubling of their numbers due to the conversion of Hindus, mostly of the lower-class people.
The Muslim sacred places in the city are of seven categories which comprise 415 mosques (masjid), 299 religious cultural sites called mazars, 197 crossings where the taziya procession crosses (known as imamchauks), 88 burial places called talaya, 11 special locations for prayer known as idgah, three sites for burying the taziyas, and 375 other religious sites.
In the 18th century under Warren Hastings's British administration, the city was under the East India Company.
During this time, the company purposely promoted learning of Sanskrit and Hindu theology by instituting the Sanskrit School in 1791 to create a conducive climate to establish Christianity in the city, propagating Christian dogmas.
In 1830, the first English Seminary, named Anglo-Indian Seminary, was instituted and Christian missionaries came to preach but it had no impact on the upper caste Hindus.
It was only the lower class of the society, that too the untouchables, who embraced Christianity.
However, with the end of British rule, Christianity did not expand any further in Varanasi.
The city has 22 churches.
The Roman Catholic Diocese of Varanasi (Latin: Varanasien(sis)) is located in the city under the Ecclesiastical province of Agra in India.
St. Mary's Cathedral is notable.
Under the Church of North India, which is the dominant Anglican and Protestant denomination in northern India, the Diocese of Lucknow, with headquarters at Allahabad, has territorial jurisdiction also over Varanasi.
Under this Diocese, the St Thomas Church in Godowlia, in the heart of the Hindu dominated area of the city, is an ancient Protestant church, the location of which is said to be the place where St. Thomas had visited to preach in 52 AD.
Father Stevens of the church believes that the church’s brick structure is dated to a period earlier than 1700 AD.
The church rises to a height of .
The church has been repainted recently with the traditional colours of light yellow and white, typical of Protestant churches.
At the 2001 census, persons of other religions or no religion made up 0.4% of the population of Varanasi district.
Varanasi is a pilgrimage site or tirtha (holy place) for Jains, as four of their Tirthankaras were born here during the 8th century BC.
In the 8th century BC, Parsvanatha, the 23rd Tirthankara, was born near Bhelupur in Varanasi, now identified with the Parshvanatha Jain temple; he propounded the triad-principle of the Mahavratas (great vows) – ahimsa ("non-violence"), asteya ("non-stealing") and aparigraha ("non-accumulation").
During archaeological excavations at this site, many Jain images were excavated which dated to the 9th–11th centuries BC, while a few images date to the 5th century BC.
After Parsvanatha, Mahavira came here in the 6th century BC.
It is also said to be the birthplace of Suparshvanatha though the exact location of his birth is not known.
It is believed that the present Jain temple in Sarnath, near the Dhamekh Stupa, commemorates the birthplace of Shryyamshanatha, the 11th Thirthankara who was born in the village of Simhapur.
At Simhapur, there are two Jain temples, one of Svetamabara and the other of Digambara.
Sarnath, a suburb of Varanasi, is a place of Buddhist pilgrimage.
It is the site of the deer park where Gautama Buddha is said to have given his first sermon about the basic principles of Buddhism.
The Dhamek Stupa is one of the few pre-Ashokan stupas still in existence, though only its foundation remains.
Also remaining is the Chaukhandi Stupa commemorating the spot where Buddha met his first disciples in the 5th century.
Guru Nanak came to Varanasi on two occasions.
He came in 1502 as a young man on a pilgrimage.
In 1506, he came for religious interaction with the sages of Banaras when he preached his dogma of Sikhism on the Maha Shivaratri festival day.
The 9th Guru Tegh Bahadur (1664–1675) came to Varanasi in 1666 and the place where he resided is called Asu Bhairava Sangar (Nichibagh), which was also the place where Guru Gobind Singh the 10th and the last Guru also stayed.
Gobind Singh had deputed five of his disciples to a school in Varanasi to learn Sanskrit and this school is still continuing; this is named as Guru Nanak Sanskrit Vidyalaya in Bisheshvarganj.
Other notable religious places of the community are three sacred sites known as Sangats, and a monastery at Ramnagar which is stated to possess an original copy of the Guru Granth Sahib.
There is also a grand Gurudwara near Augharnath-ka-Takia.
A majority of Sikhs here are migrants from West Punjab in Pakistan who settled here after India's partition in 1947.
The population of Sikhs was reported to be around 5,000.
Dalits encompass 13% of Varanasi's population.
Most dalits are followers of Guru Ravidass.
Shri Guru Ravidass Janam Asthan is an important place of pilgrimage for Ravidasis from all around India.
The Ramlila of Ramnagar is a dramatic enactment of Rama's legend, as told in Ramacharitamanasa.
The plays, sponsored by Kashi Naresh, are performed in Ramnagar every evening for 31 days.
On the last day, the festivities reach a crescendo as Rama vanquishes the demon king Ravana.
Kashi Naresh Udit Narayan Singh started this tradition around 1830.
Nag Nathaiya, celebrated on the fourth lunar day of the dark fortnight of the Hindu month of Kartik (October–November), that commemorates the victory of Krishna over the serpent Kaliya.
On this occasion, a large Kadamba tree (Neolamarckia cadamba) branch is planted on the banks of the Ganges so that a boy acting the role of Krishna can jump into the river on to the effigy representing Kaliya.
He stands over the effigy in a dancing pose playing the flute; the effigy and the boy standing on it are given a swirl in front of the audience.
People watch the display standing on the banks of the river or from boats.
Bharat Milap celebrates the meeting of Rama and his younger brother Bharata after the return of the former after 14 years of exile.
It is celebrated during October–November, a day after the festival of Vijayadashami.
Kashi Naresh attends this festival in his regal attire.
The festival attracts a large number of devotees.
Ganga Mahotsav is a five-day music festival organized by the Uttar Pradesh Tourism Department, held in November–December culminating a day before Kartik Poornima (Dev Deepawali).
On Kartik Poornima, also called the Ganges festival, the Ganges is venerated by arti offered by thousands of pilgrims who release lighted lamps to float in the river from the ghats.
Every year, the primary Muslim festivals celebrated in the city are the ld-ul-fitr' (Ramzan), Bakrid, Shab-e-Barat, Bara Wafat and Muharram.
Additional festivals include Alvida and Chehlum.
A non-religious festival observed by Muslims is Ghazi-miyan-ka-byaha ("the marriage of Ghazi Miyan").
Professor Michael Gelfand OBE, CBE, Knight of the Order of St. Sylvester, MD (Cape Town), FRCP, DPH (London), DMR, Hon.
LLD (Zimbabwe and Birmingham), Hon.
DLitt (Cape Town), was one of Zimbabwe's most distinguished colonial medical practitioners, who received a Papal Order of the Knighthood of St. Sylvester.
Gelfand was noted for a humanistic approach to medicine, and for his historical and ethnographic works, which are considered to have played an important role in his reexamination of significant colonial prejudices he held about African peoples, culture, and religious practices.
Professor Gelfand was born in Wynberg, Cape Province, South Africa, in 1912, of immigrant Lithuanian parents, and he died on 12 July 1985, while attending a patient in the Avenues Clinic in Harare, Zimbabwe.
Gelfand was a practitioner of Judaism.
After qualifying in South Africa and working there and in England, in 1939 he joined the then-Southern Rhodesia Medical Service as Physician, Pathologist and Radiologist.
He had married a Bulawayan, Esther Kollenberg, whom he had met at the University of Cape Town.
When their first of three daughters was due, they joined Esther's family in Rhodesia.
Once in government service, he quickly gained a reputation by being the only doctor to correctly diagnose the illness of the wife of the Head of the Medical Services.
In 1955, he founded the Central African Journal of Medicine with Joseph Ritchken, and remained its co-editor for many years.
In 1962, he joined the then-University of Rhodesia as founding Professor of African Medicine.
From 1970 until his retirement, in 1977, he was Professor and Head of Department of Medicine, and thereafter Emeritius Professor and Senior Clinical Research Fellow.
He was a prolific writer: 330 articles and monographs in various journals on topics ranging from medicine, ethics, philosophy, history and religion, to Shona custom, religion and culture, with titles including "Migration of African Labourers in Rhodesia and Nyasaland (1890 - 1914)" He wrote more than 30 books, amongst them The Sick African and Livingstone, the Doctor.
He is remembered in Zimbabwe with admiration and affection.
Esther Gelfand, his widow, still lives in Harare, in the same house they shared together for many years.
Gelfand attended Wynberg Boys' High School and obtained his degree in medicine from the University of Cape Town in 1936.
His further medical training was in London.
He was professor and chair of the department of medicine at the University of Zimbabwe and founded the Central African Journal of Medicine.
His works on rheumatic diseases, including those featured in The Sick African (1944), have been used as a reference for further study of rheumatic diseases in Africa and complications related to tuberculosis, HIV, and other diseases.
An incomplete list of Gelfand's works is found below.
Robert Thomas Bakker (born March 24, 1945) is an American paleontologist who helped reshape modern theories about dinosaurs, particularly by adding support to the theory that some dinosaurs were endothermic (warm-blooded).
Along with his mentor John Ostrom, Bakker was responsible for initiating the ongoing "dinosaur renaissance" in paleontological studies, beginning with Bakker's article "Dinosaur Renaissance" in the April 1975 issue of Scientific American.
His special field is the ecological context and behavior of dinosaurs.
Bakker has been a major proponent of the theory that dinosaurs were "warm-blooded," smart, fast and adaptable.
He published his first paper on dinosaur endothermy in 1968.
His seminal work, The Dinosaur Heresies, was published in 1986.
He revealed the first evidence of parental care at nesting sites for Allosaurus.
Bakker was among the advisors for the film Jurassic Park and for the 1992 PBS series, The Dinosaurs!.
He also observed evidence in support of Eldredge and Gould's theory of punctuated equilibrium in dinosaur populations.
Bakker currently serves as the Curator of Paleontology for the Houston Museum of Natural Science.
Bakker was born in Bergen County, New Jersey.
He attributes his interest in dinosaurs to his reading an article in the September 7, 1953, issue of Life magazine.
He graduated from Ridgewood High School in 1963.
At Yale University, Bakker studied under John Ostrom, an early proponent of the new view of dinosaurs, and later gained a PhD at Harvard.
He began by teaching anatomy at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland and Earth and Space Sciences, where future artist Gregory S. Paul worked and collaborated informally under his guidance.
Most of his field work has been done in Wyoming, especially at Como Bluff, but he has ranged as far as Mongolia and South Africa in pursuit of dinosaur habitats.
He also helped as an assistant at the University of Colorado.
In his 1986 work The Dinosaur Heresies, Bakker puts forth the theory that dinosaurs were warm-blooded.
His evidence for this includes: Bakker is also a proponent of the idea that flowering plants evolved because of their interactions with dinosaurs.
His novel Raptor Red tells of a year in the life of a female Utahraptor of the lower Cretaceous.
In the story, Bakker elaborates on his knowledge of the behavior of dromaeosaurids ("raptor" dinosaurs) and life at the time of their existence.
He is credited with the comment: "paleontology requires a lot of patience and a lot of beer."
As a Pentecostal, Ecumenical Christian minister, Bakker has said there is no real conflict between religion and science, and that evolution of species and geologic history is compatible with religious belief.
Bakker views the Bible as an ethical and moral guide, rather than a literal timetable of events in the history of life.
He has advised non-believers and creationists to read the views put forward by Saint Augustine, who argued against a literal understanding of the Book of Genesis.
The bearded paleontologist Dr. Robert Burke, who is eaten by a Tyrannosaurus rex in Steven Spielberg's film The Lost World: Jurassic Park after making appearances in the SEGA CD version of Jurassic Park, is an affectionate caricature of Bakker.
In real life, Bakker has argued for a predatory T. rex, while Bakker's rival paleontologist Jack Horner views it as primarily a scavenger.
According to Horner, Spielberg wrote the character of Burke and had him killed by the T. rex as a favor for Horner.
After the film came out, Bakker recognized himself in Burke, loved the caricature, and actually sent Horner a message saying, "See, I told you T. rex was a hunter!
".
Rites of the Gods is an archaeological study of religious belief and ritual practices across prehistoric Britain from the Old Stone Age through to the Iron Age.
Written by the prominent English archaeologist and megalithic specialist Aubrey Burl, it was first published in 1981 by J.M.
Dent & Sons Ltd. Each chapter explores a different stage in British prehistory, beginning with the Old Stone Age, when the island was inhabited by hunter-gatherers who likely undertook rituals for use in "hunting magic".
Prior to the publication of Rites of the Gods, Burl had already published several books on the subject of prehistoric religion, such as The Stone Circles of the British Isles (1976), Prehistoric Avebury (1979) and Rings of Stone: The Prehistoric Stone Circles of Britain and Ireland (1980).
Chapter one, "Avenues to Antiquity, Blind Alleys and Dead Ends", provides an introduction to the study of prehistoric religion, and the associated problems that come with it.
Noting that archaeological evidence has to be supplemented with ethnographic comparisons, proto-historical literature and the study of later folklore, Burl highlights a number of prominent archaeological sites found in Britain that can be used to shed light on ancient religious beliefs, such as Skara Brae, Esh's Barrow and Windmill Hill.
In the second chapter, entitled "The Birth of the Gods", Burl turns his attention to Palaeolithic (Old Stone Age) and Mesolithic (Middle Stone Age) Britain, the periods when the populace – both Neanderthals and Homo sapiens – lived as nomadic hunter-gatherers.
Using evidence from across continental Europe to supplement the few finds from Britain, Burl notes that it was the period when humans began ritualistically burying their dead, citing examples like that of the Red Lady of Paviland, providing potential evidence for a belief in an afterlife.
He furthermore argues that in this period, the people of Britain saw their landscape in an animistic sense, being inhabited by a multitude of spirits, and that there were various animal cults, in particular dedicated to fierce creatures such as the bear.
Turning to look at examples of cave art from across Europe, he draws comparisons with the artworks of contemporary Indigenous Australians, believing that in Stone Age Europe they were used for "hunting magic".
Chapter three, "Good Lands and Bone-Houses", looks at ritual and religion in Early Neolithic (New Stone Age) Britain, discussing the arrival of agriculture and the radical social changes that farming led to.
Arguing that religion still centred largely around ensuring fertility by propitiating spirits, Burl identifies "sexual carvings", such as the chalk phallus found at Maumbury Rings or the goddess figurine from Grimes Graves as evidence of this.
He also argues that this period saw the development of an ancestor cult in Britain, resulting in the deposition of the dead in barrows, including the large long barrows such as Fussell's Lodge.
Finally, he discusses the defleshing of corpses and the smashing of human bone, possibly in rites designed to allow a human's spirit to depart the dead body, and potential totemism in Early Neolithic Britain, exemplified in the burial of ox heads at certain ritual sites.
These themes are continued in the fourth chapter, "Dead Bones for Living People", which looks at the development of megalithic tombs in Britain, illustrating the existence of a "cult of the ancestors".
Discussing examples ranging from Wayland's Smithy to Newgrange and Belas Knap, Burl highlights how there were regional architectural styles across Britain and Ireland, although all served similar purposes in housing the bones of the dead.
He then argues that as the population rose, these stone tombs began too small to house the growing number who were dying, leading to the introduction of wider open henges and causewayed enclosures for the burial of the deceased.
The fifth chapter, "Rings around the Moon", explores the monumental architecture of the Late Neolithic period in Britain, discussing the development of large earthworks known as henges, as well as the construction of the early wooden and stone circles, many of which contained celestial alignments.
Proceeding to focus on the Late Neolithic society of Orkney, he discusses the village of Skara Brae and the various ceremonial monuments in the region, such as Maes Howe and Stenness, arguing for the existence of an ancestor cult and totemistic beliefs.
Rites of the Gods was reviewed by the archaeologist Richard Bradley in the Archaeological Review from Cambridge.
Truth in Science is a United Kingdom-based creationist organization which promotes the Discovery Institute's "Teach the Controversy" campaign, which it uses to try to get intelligent design creationism taught alongside evolution in school science lessons.
The organization claims that there is scientific controversy about the validity of Darwinian evolution, a view rejected by the United Kingdom's Royal Society and over 50 Academies of Science around the world.
The group is affiliated with the Discovery Institute, the hub of the intelligent design movement, following its strategy and circulating the Institute's promotional materials.
According to the Truth in Science website the organization is run by a Board of Directors who are advised by a Council of Reference and a Scientific Panel.
As of 20 June 2007 these are listed as follows In September 2006, Truth in Science sent resource packs on intelligent design to the heads of science of all United Kingdom secondary schools.
According to New Scientist, 59 schools around the United Kingdom used, or planned to use the Truth in Science information packs.
The New Scientist article stated that Truth in Science circulated the material with the intention of countering the teaching of evolution in science classes, and that the information packs "promote the notion that life on Earth was created through intelligent design, a euphemism for the biblical story of creation".
The BBC News website reported the reaction to the information packs from the United Kingdom Department for Education and Skills: "Neither creationism nor intelligent design are taught as a subject in schools, and are not specified in the science curriculum.
The national curriculum for science clearly sets down that pupils should be taught that the fossil record is evidence for evolution, and how variation and selection may lead to evolution or extinction."
-- DfES Spokesperson, BBC News.
Speaking in the House of Commons, on November 1, 2006, The Right Hon.
Jim Knight, Labour MP for Dorset South, and Minister of State at the Department for Education and Skills, the Minister for Schools, criticised Truth In Science, their information packs, and intelligent design creationism, citing them as unsuitable for the United Kingdom science curriculum.
In answer to a question regarding what the Secretary of State for Education and Skills would do in response to the information packs, Knight said: In December 2006, Colin Slee, the Dean of Southwark, said: "Everything needs to be explored, so that children can ask sensible questions.
Though I see no huge difficulty with exploring intelligent design or creationism or flat Earth, they happen to be misguided, foolish and flying in the face of all evidence.
I see no problem with Darwinian theory and Christian faith going hand in hand", -- Colin Slee, Dean of Southwark, The Times, December 2006.
Ekklesia, a United Kingdom theological think-tank accused Truth in Science and the advocates of intelligent design of misrepresenting the bible, and that creationism and intelligent design are not on par with accepted scientific theories.
According to one Ekklesia contributor, Geologist and Anglican vicar Michael Roberts, the material on the Truth in Science website is carefully packaged to hide its young Earth creationist roots.
Simon Barrow, co-director of the UK Christian think tank Ekklesia outlined his critique of intelligent design creationism, and pseudo-scientific explanations for the universe: "Creationism and ID are in no way comparable to scientific theories of origins and have no place in the modern science classroom.
They also distort mature Christian understandings of the universe as coming into being through the whole world process, not through reversals or denials of that process.
The roots of creationism, whether in its ‘hard’ form, or in attenuated ID ideas, lie not in science but in misinterpretations of the Bible.
Claims that such notions can be justified from a ‘literal’ reading of Genesis are nonsensensical.
This book has not one, but two ‘creation stories’.
They differ widely in detail, are highly figurative, and were written to combat fatalistic Ancient Near East cosmogonies by stressing the underlying goodness of the world as a gift of God, not to comment on modern scientific matters" -- Ekklesia, 25 September 2006.
In response to the introduction of intelligent design to European schools, the Royal Society stated that "intelligent design has far more in common with a religious belief in creationism than it has with science" and raised concerns that "young people are poorly served by deliberate attempts to withhold, distort or misrepresent scientific knowledge and understanding in order to promote particular religious beliefs".
In a Guardian newspaper article, dated 27 November 2006, Professor Lewis Wolpert of University College London, attacked intelligent design, and the ambitions of Truth in Science: "There is just no evidence for intelligent design, it is pure religion and has nothing to do with science.
It should be banned from science classes".
In October 2006, a science organization called Science, Just Science reviewed the DVD information packs sent by Truth in Science to the heads of science at all United Kingdom secondary schools in September 2006.
The UK pro-science advocacy group British Centre for Science Education has condemned attempts to introduce the teaching of creationism at British schools.
BCSE protested when Truth in Science sent information packs to every UK secondary school in September, 2006.
In a letter to the editor, published in Financial Times, Ian Lowe of BCSE, expressed concern that creationism could possibly flourish even in Britain, while Mike Brass, chairman of BCSE, said in a letter to The Guardian, "intelligent design (ID) is creationism dressed up in a tux to sneak into our science classrooms."
On October 11, 2006, a reader, Chris Preedy, wrote a letter to The Times newspaper highlighting "scientific errors" on the Truth in Science website, including that the organization denies the evolution of bacterial flagellum.
In response, Richard Buggs of the Truth in Science scientific panel published a letter in the Times stating:
The Singapore Biennale ( ) is a contemporary art biennale in Singapore.
The first Singapore Biennale operated as one of a lineup of Singapore 2006 events.
Fumio Nanjo, Director of Tokyo's Mori Art Museum, has been reappointed Artistic Director of the Singapore Biennale 2008.
Working with Mr Nanjo on Singapore Biennale 2008 are two curators: independent curator Joselina Cruz, formerly a curator at the Singapore Art Museum and the Lopez Museum in Manila; and Matthew Ngui, one of Singapore's leading artists in contemporary art.
The first Singapore Biennale employed the theme of "Belief", commencing on 4 September 2006 and ended on 12 November.
The event was held in various locations throughout Singapore.
It featured 195 artworks, from 95 artists and collectives from 38 different countries.
The event was part of the Singapore 2006 events which included the 2006 Annual Meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank Group held at the Suntec Singapore International Convention and Exhibition Centre.
The event was organised by the National Arts Council (which also organised the annual Singapore Arts Festival) in conjunction with the National Heritage Board.
The biennale featured different types of contemporary art including drawings, paintings, installations, new media, performances, photography, video, publishing, sound, wall painting, and furniture.
Artists of note included Ilya and Emilia Kabakov, Fujiko Nakaya, Jenny Holzer, Mariko Mori, Shigeru Ban, Yayoi Kusama, Jenny Holzer and Takashi Kuribayashi.
The Curatorial Team for the Singapore Biennale was headed by renowned curator Fumio Nanjo.
The other curators involved in the "Belief" exhibition were Roger McDonald (Japan), Sharmini Pereira (Sri Lanka/United Kingdom) and Eugene Tan (Singapore).
The event included exhibits displayed in various venues, which were: The City Hall was restored temporarily for the event was also used from 11 September to 20 September as a registration centre for the International Monetary Fund and World Bank meetings (Biennale exhibits in City Hall were closed during this period.
7 of the sites are religious spaces, tying back in to the Biennale theme: Belief.
These sites represent Singapore's main religions and the artworks the sites each reflect the nature of the religious belief itself.
Most of the works were site-specific, such as Indian artist, Ashok Sukumaran's "Everything is Contestable" light installation at the Armenian Church.
Another remarkable artwork was Chinese artist, Jennifer Wen Ma's "Alms" which was a video displayed at three different sites, namely Maghain Aboth Synagogue, Saint Joseph's Church and Masjid Sultan.
It reflected the emphasis on acts of altruism in the all three religious beliefs.
The nature of these sites and artworks was intended to blur distinction between a holy site and an art gallery, all in a reverent manner.
Most venues were modified for use for the Singapore Biennale by the architecture firms Kennel LLP or Lekker Design.
The Singapore Biennale is part of a framework of two bi-annual visual arts platforms which together provide a diverse showcase of visual arts in the country.
The other event is the Singapore Art Show which serves as a platform for local visual artists.
These two biennials, organised on alternate years, nurture Singaporean talent and engage audiences both nationally and internationally.
In 2006, the Biennale informed an artist that his work, tentatively titled Talk to Him, would only be able to go ahead if the artist had a lawyer and bore all responsibility for the work.
The artist had intended to screen video recordings of his interviews with 5 art practitioners in Singapore about a range of topics.
As the cost of a lawyer made up half of the work's budget, the work was never realised.
In 2011, following a private preview, the Singapore Art Museum removed Japanese-British artist Simon Fujiwara’s work, Welcome to the Hotel Munber (2010), which featured homoerotic content, despite appropriate advisory notices put up by the museum itself as organiser, venue provider and manager of the Biennale.
This censorship was committed without any consultation with or notification of the artist.
Raymond McCreesh ( , 25 February 1957 – 21 May 1981) was a volunteer in the South Armagh Brigade of the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA).
In 1976 he and two other IRA volunteers were captured while attempting to ambush a British Army observation post.
McCreesh was one of ten Irish republicans who died on hunger strike in the Maze Prison.
Raymond Peter McCreesh, the seventh in a family of eight children, was born in St Malachy's Park, Camlough, on 25 February 1957.
He was born into a strong Irish republican family, and was active in the republican movement from the age of 16.
McCreesh attended the local primary school in Camlough, St Malachy's, and later attended St Colman's College in Newry.
Raymond first joined Fianna Éireann, the IRA's youth wing, in 1973, and later that year he progressed to join the Provisional IRA South Armagh Brigade.
McCreesh had worked for a short time as steelworker in a predominately Protestant factory in Lisburn.
However, as sectarian threats and violence escalated, he switched professions to work as a milk roundsman in his local area of South Armagh: an occupation which greatly increased his knowledge of the surrounding countryside, as well as enabling him to observe the movements of British Army patrols in the area.
On 25 June 1976, McCreesh (aged 19) and three other IRA volunteers attempted to ambush a British Army observation post (OP) in South Armagh.
It lay opposite the Mountain House Inn, on the Newry–Newtonhamilton Road.
As the armed, masked and uniformed IRA volunteers approached the OP, they were spotted by British paratroopers on a hillside.
The paratroopers opened fire on the volunteers, who scattered.
Two of them, McCreesh and Paddy Quinn, took cover in a nearby farmhouse.
The paratroopers surrounded the house and fired a number of shots into the building.
After some time, McCreesh and Quinn surrendered and were taken to Bessbrook British Army base.
The third volunteer, Danny McGuinness, had taken cover in a disused quarry outhouse but was captured the next day.
The fourth member of the unit managed to escape despite being shot in the leg, arm and chest.
Local Catholic priests facilitated their surrender.McFate, Montgomery (2014).
Pax Britannica: British Counterinsurgency In Northern Ireland, 1969-1982.< On 2 March 1977, McCreesh and Quinn were sentenced to fourteen years in prison for the attempted murder of British soldiers, possession of a rifle and ammunition, and a further five years for IRA membership.
The rifle that McCreesh had in his possession when captured was one of those used in the Kingsmill massacre on 5 January 1976, when 10 Protestant civilians were shot dead.
McCreesh was sent to the Maze Prison.
He joined the blanket protest and took part in the 1981 Irish hunger strike.
He died on 21 May, after 61 days on hunger strike.
One of the soldiers who captured McCreesh—Lance Corporal David Jones—was later killed by Francis Hughes, who died during the same hunger strike.
A Newry playground was named after McCreesh after a motion led by Sinn Féin, SDLP and independent representatives on Newry and Mourne District Council was passed.
Unionists were unhappy with this and appealed to the Equality Commission which called for an equality impact assessment in 2008.
The council sub-committee responsible for the assessment decided that naming the park after McCreesh complies with their legal requirement to "promote equality of opportunity and good relations between persons of different religious belief and political opinion".
In 2013 it was announced that the decision to name the park after McCreesh would be formally investigated by the Equality Commission for Northern Ireland.
It said its investigation would consider whether the council had failed to have due regard to the need to promote equality and good relations between people of different religious beliefs and political opinion.
McCreesh is also commemorated on the Irish Martyrs Memorial at Waverley Cemetery in Sydney, Australia.
Islam is the dominant religion in Niger and is practiced by 94% of the population.
The vast majority of Muslims are Sunni of Maliki school of jurisprudence.
Other religions practiced in Niger include Animism and Christianity.
Islam in Niger accounts for the vast majority of the nation's religious adherents.
The faith is practiced by more than 94% of the population, although this figure varies by source and percentage of population who are classified as Animist.
Majority of the Muslim population identifies itself as Sunni with Shia and Ahmadiyya minorities representing 7% and 6% respectively.
Many of the communities who continue to practice elements of traditional religions do so within a framework of syncretic Islamic belief, making agreed statistics difficult.
Islam in Niger, although dating back more than a millennium, gained dominance over traditional religions only in the 19th and early 20th centuries, and has been marked by influences from neighboring societies.
Sufi brotherhoods have become the dominant Muslim organisation, like much of West Africa.
Despite this, a variety of interpretations of Islam coexist—largely in peace—with one another as well as with minorities of other faiths.
The government of Niger is secular in law while recognising the importance of Islam to the vast majority of its citizens.
Christianity was brought with French colonial institutions, and its adherents include local believers from the educated, the elite, and colonial families, as well as immigrants from neighboring coastal countries, particularly Benin, Togo, and Ghana.
Christians, both Roman Catholics and Protestants, account for less than 1% of the population.
One estimate has Christians at 0.4% and Evangelicals at 0.1%—and are mainly present in the regions of Maradi and Dogondoutchi, and in Niamey and other urban centers with expatriate populations.
Current estimates place the current Christian population at about 56,000 individuals with projected growth resulting in about 84,500 Christians by the year 2025.
Foreign Christian missionary organizations are active in the country, continuing a tradition dating back to the colonial period.
The first Catholic mission was founded in 1931, while the first Protestant missionaries came to Zinder in 1924 and to Tibiri a few years later.
In the late 1970s there were some 12,000 Catholic and 3,000 Protestant converts in Niger, with the remaining Christian population made up of foreigners.
The Bahá'í Faith in Niger began during a period of wide scale growth in the religion across Sub-Saharan Africa near the end of its colonial period.
The first Bahá'ís arrive in Niger in 1966 and the growth of the religion reached a point of electing its National Spiritual Assembly in 1975.
Following a period of oppression, making the institutions of the religion illegal in the late 1970s and 80s, the National Assembly was re-elected starting in 1992.
The Bahá'í community in Niger has grown mostly in the south-west of the country where they number about 5,600 (0.04% total population.)
A small percentage of the population practices traditional indigenous religious beliefs.
Although studies estimate that such practitioners number around 1,055,000 individuals, or about 6.6% of the total population, such numbers can be misleading as there is a high rate of syncretism within Muslim communities throughout the country.
African Traditional Religion beliefs include both festivals and traditions (such as the Bori cult) practiced by some syncretic Muslim communities (in some Hausa areas as well as among some Toubou and Wodaabe pastoralists), as opposed to several small communities who maintain their pre-Islamic religion.
These include the Hausa speaking Maouri (or Arna, the Hausa word for "pagan") community in Dogondoutci in the south-southwest and the Kanuri speaking Manga near Zinder, both of whom practice variations of the pre-Islamic Hausa Maguzawa religion.
There are also some tiny Boudouma and Songhay African Traditional Religion communities in the southwest.
The Constitution of Niger provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respects this right in practice, as long as persons respect public order, social peace, and national unity.
The US government received no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice in 2007.
Niger has a history of good relations between the majority Muslim believers and the much smaller minority faiths.
In 2008, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Niamey Mgr Michel Cartatéguy was quoted in the press as saying that Niger is one of the "best examples" of cohabitation and cooperation between Christians and Muslims.
In January 2015 Muslim protestors burned churches and cars and attacked French-linked businesses across Niger on Saturday, in violent protests against the publication of a cartoon of Muhammad on the cover of Charlie Hebdo magazine.
The most recent statistics on religion in Rwanda were published by the US Government in 2013, yet the source information dates back to the national Census of 2002, which reports that: 56.9% of the Rwanda's population is Roman Catholic, 26% is Protestant, 11.1% is Seventh-day Adventist, 4.6% is Muslim (mainly Sunni), 1.7% claims no religious affiliation, and 0.1% practices traditional indigenous beliefs.
The figures for Protestants include the growing number of members of Jehovah's Witnesses (36,000 in 2013) and evangelical Protestant groups.
There is also a small population of Baha'is.
There has been a proliferation of small, usually Christian-linked schismatic religious groups since the 1994 genocide.
Foreign missionaries and church-linked nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) of various religious groups operate in the country.
Foreign missionaries openly promote their religious beliefs, and the Government welcomes their development assistance.
The Constitution of Rwanda provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice.
Local government officials sometimes detain Jehovah's Witnesses for refusing to participate in security patrols.
In 2007, the US government received no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Although the ethnic divisions and tensions between Hutu and Tutsi predate the colonial era, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) report on the genocide states, <blockquote>In the colonial era, under German and then Belgian rule, Roman Catholic missionaries, inspired by the overtly racist theories of 19th century Europe, concocted a destructive ideology of ethnic cleavage and racial ranking that attributed superior qualities to the country's Tutsi minority, since the missionaries ran the colonial-era schools, these pernicious values were systematically transmitted to several generations of Rwandans…</blockquote> When the Roman Catholic missionaries came to Rwanda in the late 1880s, they contributed to the "Hamitic" theory of race origins, which taught that the Tutsi were a superior race.
The Church has been considered to have played a significant role in fomenting racial divisions between Hutu and Tutsi, in part because they found more willing converts among the majority Hutu.
An estimated 800,000 Rwandans died during ethnic violence over a brief span of 100 days between April and June 1994.
Most of the dead were Tutsis, and most of those who perpetrated the violence were Hutus.
The genocide started after the death of the Rwandan President Juvénal Habyarimana, a Hutu, in the shooting down of his plane above Kigali airport on 6 April 1994.
The full details of that specific incident remain unclear; however, the death of the president was by no means the only cause of the mayhem.
(Ethnic tension in Rwanda is not new.
Disagreements between the majority Hutus and minority Tutsis are common, but the animosity between them grew substantially after the end of the Belgian colonial regime.)
Timothy Longman has provided the most detailed discussion of the role of religion in the Rwandan genocide in Christianity and Genocide in Rwanda, published in 2010.
Longman argues that both Catholic and Protestant churches helped to make the genocide possible by giving moral sanction to the killing.
Churches had longed played ethnic politics themselves, favoring the Tutsi during the colonial period then switching allegiance to the Hutu after 1959, sending a message that ethnic discrimination was consistent with church teaching.
The church leaders had also long had close ties with the political leaders, and after the genocide began, the church leaders called on the population to support the new interim government, the very government supporting the genocide.
At the same time, churches did not uniformly support the genocide.
In the period leading up to the genocide, 1990–1994, major splits emerged within most churches between moderates who promoted democratic change and conservatives allied with the Habyarimana regime.
Many of the clergy were Tutsi, and they generally supported democratic reform, but many moderate Hutu within the churches supported reform as well.
Churches provided major support to the formation of the new human-rights groups that emerged in the early 1990s.
When the genocide began in 1994, some clergy and other church leaders opposed the violence, even at the risk of their own lives.
Some individual members of the religious community attempted to protect civilians, sometimes at great risk to themselves.
Thaddée Ntihinyurwa of Cyangugu preached against the genocide from the pulpit and tried unsuccessfully to rescue three Tutsi religious brothers from an attack, while Sr. Felicitas Niyitegeka of the Auxiliaires de l’Apostolat in Gisenyi smuggled Tutsi across the border into Zaire before a militant militia executed her in retaliation.
In her book Left to Tell: Discovering God in the Rwandan Holocaust (2006), Immaculée Ilibagiza, a Tutsi woman, describes hiding with seven other Tutsi women for 91 days in a bathroom in the house of Pastor Murinzi - for the majority of the genocide.
At the St Paul Pastoral Centre in Kigali about 2,000 people found refuge and most of them survived, due to the efforts of Fr Célestin Hakizimana.
This priest "intervened at every attempt by the militia to abduct or murder" the refugees in his centre.
In the face of powerful opposition, he tried to hold off the killers with persuasion or bribes.
Intersubjective verifiability is the capacity of a concept to be readily and accurately communicated between different individuals ("intersubjectively"), and to be reproduced under varying circumstances for the purposes of verification.
It is a core principle of empirical, scientific investigation.
Although there are areas of belief that do not consistently employ intersubjective verifiability (e.g., many religious claims), intersubjective verifiability is a near-universal way of arbitrating truth claims used by people everywhere.
In its basic form, it can be found in colloquial expressions, e.g., "I'm from Missouri.
The scientific principle of replication of findings by investigators other than those that first reported the phenomenon is simply a more highly structured form of the universal principle of intersubjective verifiability.
Each individual is a subject, and must subjectively experience the physical world.
Each subject has a different perspective and point of view on various aspects of the world.
However, by sharing their comparable experiences intersubjectively, individuals may gain an increasingly similar understanding of the world.
In this way, many different subjective experiences can come together to form intersubjective ones that are less likely to be prone to individual bias or gaps in knowledge.
While specific internal experiences are not intersubjectively verifiable, the existence of thematic patterns of internal experience can be intersubjectively verified.
For example, whether or not people are telling what they believe to be the truth when they make claims can only be known by the claimants.
However, we can intersubjectively verify that people almost universally experience discomfort (hunger) when they haven't had enough to eat.
We generally have only a crude ability to compare (measure) internal experiences.
When an external, public phenomenon is experienced and carefully described (in words or measurements) by one individual, other individuals can see if their experiences of the phenomenon "fit" the description.
If they do, a sense of congruence between one subject and another occurs.
This is the basis for a definition of what is true that is agreed upon by the involved parties.
If the description does not fit the experience of one or more of the parties involved, incongruence occurs instead.
Incongruent contradictions between the experience and descriptions of different individuals can be caused by a number of factors.
One common source of incongruence is the inconsistent use of language in the descriptions people use, such as the same words being used differently.
Such semantic problems require more careful development and use of language.
Incongruence also arises from a failure to describe the phenomena well.
In these cases, further development of the description, model, or theory used to refer to the phenomena is required.
A third form of incongruence arises when the descriptions do not conform to consensual (i.e., intersubjectively verifiable) experience, such as when the descriptions are faulty, incorrect, wrong, or inaccurate, and need to be replaced by more accurate descriptions, models, or theories.
The contradiction between the truths derived from intersubjective verification and beliefs based on faith or on appeal to authority (e.g., many religious beliefs) forms the basis for the conflict between religion and science.
There have been attempts to bring the two into congruence, and the modern, cutting edge of science, especially in physics, seems to many observers to lend itself to a melding of religious experience and intersubjective verification of beliefs.
Some scientists have described religious worldviews---generally of a mystical nature---consistent with their understanding of science: <blockquote>There are two ways to live your life.
One is as though nothing is a miracle.
The other is as though everything is a miracle .
.
.
Science without religion is lame, religion without science is blind .
.
.
The religion of the future will be a cosmic religion.
The religion which is based on experience, which refuses dogmatism .
.
.
There remains something subtle, intangible and inexplicable.
Veneration for this force beyond anything that we can comprehend is my religion.
Other scientists, who are committed to basing belief on intersubjective verification, have called for or predicted the development of a religion consistent with science.
<blockquote>A religion old or new, that stressed the magnificence of the universe as revealed by modern science, might be able to draw forth reserves of reverence and awe hardly tapped by the conventional faiths.
Sooner or later, such a religion will emerge.
(Carl Sagan, Pale Blue Dot)</blockquote> <blockquote>The evolutionary epic is probably the best myth we will ever have ...
The true evolutionary epic, retold as poetry, is as intrinsically ennobling as any religious epic.
Responding to this apparent overlap between cutting edge science and mystical experience, in recent years, there have been overt efforts to formulate religious belief systems that are built on truth claims based upon intersubjective verifiability, e.g.
Anthroposophy, Yoism.
The Marriage of Sense and Soul: Integrating Science and Religion.
Joseph Weintraub (1908-1977) was Chief Justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court from 1957 to 1973.
He previously served as an Associate Justice of the same court in 1956-57.
Among the landmark decisions authored by Weintraub was Robinson v. Cahill, which declared that the constitutional rights of urban school children were being violated by the state's failure to provide an equitable system of educational funding.
He also authored State v. Shack, 58 N.J. 297 (1971),in which the New Jersey Supreme Court decided that a lawyer and a health services worker who came to a farm to help migrant workers were not trespassing when they refused to leave at the farm owner's demand.
In that opinion the Chief Justice wrote: "Property rights serve human values.
They are recognized to that end and limited by it."
On that basis he concluded that the farmer could not isolate the migrant worker from the outside world.
Another remarkable opinion was his concurrence in In re Adoption of E, 59 N.J. 36 (1971).
The court had held that a prospective adoptive family could not be disqualified simply because the couple were atheists.
The Chief Justice's concurrence would have gone even further; he wrote that religious belief should not be considered at all in deciding whether a family should be allowed to adopt because judges have no ability to evaluate the quality of religious beliefs.
During his sixteen year tenure as Chief Justice, the New Jersey Supreme Court played a leading role nationally in transforming and modernizing the common law to accord with realities of life in the mid-twentieth century.
With Justices John Francis and Nathan Jacobs in particular, the Court struck a new course in the areas of consumer protection, product safety, rights of tenants and liability for negligence.
For a perceptive survey of his career by a later Justice of the N.J. Supreme Court, see O'Hern, Brennan and Weintraub: Two Stars to Guide Us, 46 Rutgers Law Review 1049 (1994).
In the mists of the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s, Justice Weintraub presided over one of the more controversial cases in New Jersey's state history.
Rubin "Hurricane" Carter, a professional prize fighter, along with Jon Artis, lost their appeal on a very questionable murder case, resulting in both of the defendants' life sentences.
Justice Weintraub acknowledged several holes in the prosecutions testimony.
Despite damning evidence implicating Carter's and Artis' innocents, Weintraub's court denied the appeal.
Weintraub's chilling language resonated throughout the African American community of New Jersey - an African American community undoubtedly subjected to a bevy of discriminatory practices and racially charged social barriers that went over-looked and ignored in New Jersey's history during the 60s and 70s.
In writing his opinion, Justice Weintraub stated: "The State failed in its effort to prove a dying declaration by Mrs. Tanis.
We know only that she and also the surviving patron were unable to identify either defendant, but the testimony does not suggest that either patron was able to say affirmatively that the defendants were not the offenders."
State v. Carter, 54 N.J. 436 (N.J. 1969).
Moreover, Justice Weintraub gave substantial deference to two witness' testimonies - Alfred Bello and Arthur Dexter Bradley - who both provided "direct evidence" of Carter's and Artis' involvement in the murders.
"Bello and Bradley, both involved in other criminal charges, provided evidence directly incriminating the defendants.
Bello said it was Carter who carried the shotgun and Artis who held the pistol; that he recognized both at once when he was confronted by them outside the tavern, and that he had withheld this information because of his own criminal activities that night and his fear of retaliation.
Bradley, who also saw both men, testified that Carter was one of them.
He was unable to say whether Artis was the other."
However, Justice Weintraub, earlier in the same exact trial, while reading same exact decision of the court, offered very telling information regarding both Bello's and Bradley's personal characters: "Alfred Bello was a key witness for the State.
He and Arthur Dexter Bradley were in the area on a criminal mission of their own.
Bradley was attempting to break into a building about two blocks away while Bello was at the intervening intersection looking out for the police.
Bello ran out of cigarettes and was walking to the tavern to buy some when he heard the shots.
As he neared the tavern, two men, Negroes, came toward him, one with a shotgun and the other with a pistol.
They were talking loudly and laughing.
When Bello realized they were not detectives, he took off and ducked into an alleyway.
Presently a white car passed by.
Bello recognized it as a 1966 Dodge and noted it had New York license plates.
Bello entered the tavern, and seeing the dead and the dying, he went to the cash register to obtain a dime to call the police.
The sight of money was too much for Bello who, explaining he was a thief, admitted he scooped some bills from the register."
Thus, Justice Weintraub, gave substantial deference to two men, who were not only convicted criminals, in order to deny two African American's appeal for their murder convictions - which were subsequently reversed - Justice Weintraub gave substantial deference to two men, who were literally committing a crime on the scene of where the murder occurred, and used their testimony to uphold Carter's and Artis' life sentences.
Justice Weintraub, Bello, and Bradley never publicly expressed regret for their decisions.
Human rights in Trinidad and Tobago comprise a series of rights legally protected by the Constitution of Trinidad and Tobago.
Trinidad and Tobago has ratified a number of international treaties and conventions on human rights and parts or principles of these legal texts have been integrated into the domestic laws of the country.
The Ministry of the Attorney General has established the International Law and Human Rights Unit to ensure adherence to these principles.
Section 4 of the Constitution prohibits discrimination on the grounds of sex.
In 2014, Trinidad and Tobago ranked 49th on the Global Gender Gap Index of the World Economic Forum, with a score of 0.715, down from its 36th place in 2013.
In terms of participation in the labor force, the country ranked 87th, with 59% of women participating as opposed to 82% of men.
Women on average received 66% of men's wages for similar work, constituted 29% of the parliament and occupied 6% of ministerial positions.
The Gender Affairs Division of the Ministry of Gender, Youth and Child Development is committed to bettering the situation in the country, with the National Gender and Development Policy at the stage of finalization since 2011 as of 2014.
In 2010, the country had its first female prime minister, Kamla Persad-Bissessar.
Violence against women, however, is on the rise, with 689 cases of sexual offences reported in 2013, with an increase of 200 cases since 2011.
According to the US Secretary of State, the government and nongovernmental organizations reported that many incidents of rape and other sexual crimes were unreported, partly due to perceived insensitivity of police, exacerbated by a wide cultural acceptance of gender-based violence.
There is a lack of reliable statistics, but women's groups stated in 2013 that over 50% of the country's women suffered abuse.
Many community leaders asserted that abuse of women, particularly in the form of domestic violence, continued to be a significant problem.
In 2014, Reporters Without Borders, in its Press Freedom Index, placed Trinidad and Tobago at the 43rd place, with a score of 23.28, corresponding to a "satisfactory situation".
In the same year, Freedom House classified Trinidad and Tobago as "free" in terms of press freedom, which is the highest level available.
There were cases brought against journalists for libel in 2012, but no such cases occurred in 2013 and efforts were made to exempt investigative journalists from such charges.
There were reportedly occasional attempts to influence the press by the politicians, for instance, three senior journalists resigned in the Trinidad Guardian to protest alleged governmental interference and the prime minister publicly criticized the press.
There was also an alleged governmental "smear campaign" against two journalists who had investigated the activities of the national security minister and the Attorney General.
However, there are active political weekly newspapers and all of the daily and weekly newspapers are privately owned, with no restrictions on access to the Internet.
The freedom of religion in Trinidad and Tobago is protected by both domestic legal framework and international conventions, namely Section 4 of the Constitution, protecting the "freedom of conscience and religious belief and observance" and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
According to the United States Secretary of State Report 2013, members of the government often participated in the ceremonies and holidays of various religious groups, regularly emphasizing religious tolerance and harmony, and government officials routinely spoke publicly against religious intolerance.
The prime minister, for example, participated in religious holiday events during Ramadan, Diwali, Eid al-Fitr, Easter, and Corpus Christi, and issued corresponding public statements underscoring religious freedom as a deeply held national value.
There were no reports of discrimination based on religious beliefs or affiliation.
According to the US Secretary of State, as of 2013, Trinidad and Tobago is a destination, transit, and possible source country for adults and children subjected to sex trafficking and adults subjected to forced labor.
Women and girls from the Dominican Republic, Guyana, Venezuela, and Colombia were reportedly subjected to sex trafficking in Trinidadian brothels and clubs.
Economic migrants from the Caribbean region and from Asia, including India and China, are vulnerable to forced labor.
Cases of forced labor have occurred in domestic service and in the retail sector.
Law enforcement officials report Trinidadian children were vulnerable to sex trafficking and forced labor, including the coerced selling of drugs.
A 2013 study indicated individuals in establishments, such as brothels or nightclubs, throughout Trinidad recruit women and girls for the commercial sex trade and keep their passports; withholding a passport is a common indicator of human trafficking.
This report also revealed that economic migrants who lack legal status may be exposed to various forms of exploitation and abuse, which are indicative of human trafficking.
According to the American report, while the government did not comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking, there was significant progress; during the reporting period, the government vigorously investigated trafficking offenses and, for the first time, formally charged suspected trafficking offenders under its 2011 anti-trafficking law.
The cases of human trafficking were also confirmed by Trinidadian officials.
There were 42 reported cases of human trafficking between 2007 and 2013, but this was not believed to reflect the extent of the problem fully.
There were no officially documented cases of trafficking of children.
Capital punishment is a legal and often-used form of punishment in North Korea for many offences, such as grand theft, murder, rape, drug smuggling, treason, espionage, political dissidence, defection, piracy, consumption of media not approved by the government and proselytizing religious beliefs that contradict practiced Juche ideology.
Current working knowledge of the topic depends heavily on the accounts of defectors (both relatives of victims, and former members of the government).
Executions are mostly carried out by firing squad, hanging or decapitation in public, making North Korea one of the last five countries to still perform public executions, the other four being Iran, Saudi Arabia, Syria and Yemen.
Human rights organizations have collected testimony on 1,193 executions in North Korea through 2009.
Foreign Policy periodical estimated there were 60 executions in 2010.
On November 3, 2013, according to a JoongAng Ilbo report, at least 80 people were publicly executed for minor offenses.
The executions were said to be carried out simultaneously in Wonsan, Chongjin, Sariwon, Pyongsong and three other North Korean cities for crimes such as watching South Korean movies, watching South Korean pornography or possessing a South Korean Bible.
According to a witness from Wonsan, 10,000 residents were forced to watch when eight people were machine-gunned to death at the local Shinpoong stadium.
On December 13, 2013, North Korean state media announced the execution of Jang Sung-taek, the uncle by marriage of North Korea's leader at the time, Kim Jong-un.
The South Korean National Intelligence Service believes that two of his closest aides, Lee Yong-ha and Jang Soo-keel, were executed in mid-November.
According to a South Korean newspaper, Jang's nephew, O Sang-hon, was executed by being burnt alive with a flame thrower.
In 2014 the United Nations Human Rights Council created a Commission of inquiry on human rights in the DPRK, investigating and documenting many instances of executions carried out with or without trial, publicly or secretly, in response to political and other crimes that are often not among the most serious.
The Commission determined that these systematic acts, including extermination and murder, rise to the level of crimes against humanity.
Amnesty International says torture and executions are widespread in political prisons in North Korea.
Testimonies describe secret and public executions in North Korean prisons by firing squad, decapitation or by hanging.
Executions are used as a means of deterrence, often accompanied by torture.
Prisoners are executed for acts like stealing food, attempting to escape, refusing to abandon religious belief, or criticizing the government.
North Korea resumed public executions in October 2007 after they had declined in the years following 2000 amidst international criticism.
Prominent executed criminals include officials convicted of drug trafficking and embezzlement.
Common criminals convicted of crimes such as murder, robbery, rape, drug dealing, smuggling, piracy, vandalism, etc.
have also been reported to be executed, mostly by firing squad.
The country does not publicly release national crime statistics or reports on the levels of crimes.
In October 2007, a South Pyongan province factory chief convicted of making international phone calls from 13 phones he installed in his factory basement was executed by firing squad in front of a crowd of 150,000 people in a stadium, according to a report from a South Korean aid agency called Good Friends.
Good Friends also reported that six were killed in the crush as spectators left.
In another instance, 15 people were publicly executed for crossing the border into China.
A U.N. General Assembly committee has adopted a draft resolution, co-sponsored by more than 50 countries, expressing "very serious concern" at reports of widespread human rights violations in North Korea, including public executions.
North Korea has condemned the draft, saying it is inaccurate and biased, but it was still sent to the then 192-member General Assembly for a final vote.
In 2011, two people were executed in front of 500 spectators for handling propaganda leaflets floated across the border from South Korea, apparently as part of a campaign by former North Korean leader Kim Jong-Il to tighten ideological control as he groomed his youngest son as the eventual successor.
Gallagher v. Crown Kosher Super Market of Massachusetts, Inc., , is a United States Supreme Court case that declared that a kosher butcher store had to abide by the state laws that banned them from selling on Sunday.
The owners of the Crown Kosher Super Market of Massachusetts were Orthodox Jews whose religion forbids them to shop or sell from sundown on Friday until sundown on Saturday and requires them to eat only kosher food, were keeping their store open on Sunday at times when it was against the Massachusetts state law.
The lawsuit was in a Federal District Court to make certain sections of the Massachusetts Sunday Closing Laws unconstitutional.
Specifically, "the selling or delivering of kosher meat by any person who, according to his religious belief, observes Saturday as the Lord's day by closing his place of business during the day until six o'clock in the afternoon, or the keeping open of his shop on the Lord's day for the sale of kosher meat between the hours of six o'clock and ten o'clock in the forenoon."
The store had formerly been open for business all day on Sundays and had done about a third of its weekly business then.
It was closed from sundown on Fridays until sundown on Saturdays.
The store had claimed that it was economically impractical for it to keep open on Saturday nights and until 10 a.m. on Sundays.
Many who bought at the store would not have been able to get meat from Friday afternoon until Monday.
The court 6-3 approved of the state law, due to the laws not being exclusively religious.
"An examination of recent Massachusetts legislative history bolsters the State's position that these statutes are not religious.
"In general, Sunday laws protect the public by guaranteeing one day in seven to provide a period of rest and quiet.
Health, peace and good order of society are thereby promoted.
Such provision is essentially civil in character, and the statutes are not regarded as religious ordinances."
Also on the issue of free exercise of religion they stated: "Secondly, appellees Orthodox Jewish customers allege that, because their religious beliefs forbid their shopping on the Jewish Sabbath, the statutes' effect is to deprive them, from Friday afternoon until Monday of each week, of the opportunity to purchase the kosher food sanctioned by their faith.
The orthodox rabbis allege that the statutes' effect greatly complicates their task of supervising the condition of kosher meat, because the meat delivered on Friday would have to be kept until Monday.
Furthermore, appellees contend that, because of all this, the statutes discriminate against their religion.
These allegations are similar, although not as grave, as those made by appellants in Braunfeld v. Brown, ante, p. 366 U.S. 599.
Since the decision in that case rejects the contentions presented by these appellees on the merits, we need not decide whether appellees have standing to raise these questions."
Justices William O. Douglas, William J. Brennan, Jr. and Potter Stewart dissented from the opinion.
This was one of the four cases decided in 1961 that declared blue laws to be constitutional.
The other three were Braunfeld v. Brown, Two Guys from Harrison-Allentown, Inc., v. McGinley and McGowan v. Maryland.
The Djabugay people (a.k.a.
Djabuganydji or Tjapukai) are a group of Australian Aborigines who are the original inhabitants of mountains, gorges, lands and waters of a richly forested part of the Great Dividing Range including the Barron Gorge and surrounding areas within the Wet Tropics of Queensland.
All Djabugay peoples share, in common, descent from ancestors who, back to Dreamtime, The local Aboriginal authors, Rhonda Duffin and Rosetta Brim describe the boundaries of Djabugay country (bulimba) as follows; <blockquote> "The Djabugay language was spoken over a wide area from Gimuy (Cairns) to Port Douglas and west towards Mareeba.
In the south it extended almost to Atherton ... different groups of Bama (Aboriginal people), each speaking their own dialect of the Djabugay language"<small>(Page 4)</small> </blockquote> Norman Tindale's (1974) Catalogue of Australian Aboriginal tribes similarly identifies Djabugay (Tjapukai) country as follows: <blockquote> "Barron River from south of Mareeba to Kuranda; north toward Port Douglas on the plateau south of and to the east of Mareeba; their western boundary followed the margin of the rain forest from Tolga north to Mount Molloy; rain forest dwellers ... the Tjapukai had by 1952 come to claim as theirs the coastal strip between Cairns Inlet and Lamb Range, with one horde living near Redlynch. "
Local Aboriginal authors, Rhonda Duffin and Rosetta Brim, have written describing contemporary Djabugay religious belief as follows; <blockquote> "BULURRU is the source of life, the Storywaters, the Storytime.
In other parts of Australia this time is known as the Dreamtime or the Dreaming.
<blockquote> "All things come from BULURRU - the sun, the moon and stars, the food we eat, the creatures of the world, the plants and trees, the rain, the very land itself.
We ourselves come from BULURRU" <small>(Page 5)</small> </blockquote> Arising out of BULURRU, from time immemorial, are stories of the creation and origin of all things, many of which have been performed, told, and even published by Djabugay people.
<blockquote> "To the Djabugay people, the "Creation Era" (Dreamtime) describes the events surrounding the making of the world.
In Djabugay country, "Bulurru" is the "spirit of creation, the sacred past, the word and the law to be followed".
As the "Bulurru" ancestors journeyed across the land, stories, songs and ceremonies were recorded and have been passed down from generation to generation."
<blockquote> "The greatest ancestor of all is Gudju Gudju, the Rainbow.
Gudju Gudju could transform into ancestors such as Budaadji, the carpet snake, who created all rivers and creeks of Barron Gorge National Park.
During the wet season, Gudju Gudju's presence is most profound in his rainbow form.
The voice of Bulurru, the creation spirit, can be heard through Gudju Gudju in the sound of thunder.
The Traditional Owners ask that you take care and respect their country during your visit."
In 2004, a Federal Court Judge, Justice Spender, determining whether or not the Djabugay people continue to hold laws that find their source in traditions preceding British colonisation of Australia (i.e.
whether or not they hold native title), also discussed Djabugay people's belief in BULURRU, when he quoted and confirmed: <blockquote> "For Djabugay people, .. not only affirm the veracity of BULURRU Law but they also stand as tangible proof of the continued presence of BULURRU ancestral and totemic beings on and in Djabugay country (bulmba)."
<blockquote> "In summary, the physical landscape, and in particular the "Storyplaces" and "Storywaters" associated with BULURRU, serves as evidence of the inalienable connection that exists between the Djabugay claimants, ancestral BULURRU beings and the lands and waters.. European settlers explored and cleared the land for gold and tin.
In May 1886, a railway was constructed from Cairns to Herberton with part of the rails going on top of a walking track.
The Djabugay were unhappy about this development and withstood the settlement by spearing bullocks and settlers.
As the settlers entered, traditional hunting and gathering grounds were taken over.
This led to the infamous Speewah massacre in 1890 where John Atherton took revenge on the Djubagay by sending in native troopers to avenge the killing of a bullock.
The Djubagay were segregated from them and forced to live at the Mona-Mona Mission and were unable to hunt, fish or move around.
Their numbers fell dramatically at the turn of the century.
By 1896, the region supported coffee plantations and the Djabugay were used as labour on farms.
Many now own their own land, some other settlements and farms in the area.
On 17 December 2004, it was recognised that native title existed in the Barron Gorge National Park for the Djabugay.
Declan Ronan Lang (born 15 April 1950) is an English prelate of the Roman Catholic Church.
He is the ninth and current bishop of Clifton.
Declan Lang was born in Cowes, on the Isle of Wight, to Irish parents.
He attended Ryde School, Allen Hall, and St. Edmund's College, Ware.
He also earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in history from Royal Holloway, University of London.
Lang was ordained to the priesthood by Bishop Derek Worlock on 7 June 1975.
He is particularly noted for the influence he had as a youth chaplain and subsequently on those now playing leading roles in the Catholic community such as the evangelist and charismatic catholic Sr Maria Natella OP and ministerial advisor and author Francis Davis; for his work as an adult educationalist as an ecumenist He then served as an Assistant Priest at the Cathedral and Chaplain to St Edmund's Comprehensive School in Portsmouth.
Four years after ordination he was appointed Secretary to Bishop Emery and Chancellor.
During this time he also worked on the Diocesan Youth Commission, which he later chaired.
For a number of years he went as Chaplain with the Portsmouth Group to Lourdes at Easter.
In 1983 he was appointed to the Religious Education Council as Adult Religious Education Advisor, a position he held until 1990.
While doing this work he was also Parish Priest of Our Lady, Queen of Apostles, Bishop's Waltham, for four years and then Parish Priest at Sacred Heart, Bournemouth.
As a result of his work in Adult Religious Education he produced together with John O'Shea, Vicky Cosstick and Damian Lundy the Parish Project.
This was to help Parishes look at what they were currently doing, evaluate it and plan together future direction.
This scheme has been taken up by a number of Parishes throughout the country.
In September 1990 he was appointed Moderator of the Curia and Administrator of the Cathedral.
During this time he was also involved in organising a summer conference for the Diocese of Portsmouth and helping with conferences in Southwark and Shrewsbury.
In January 1996 he was appointed as one of the Vicars General in the Diocese moving from Portsmouth to Abingdon.
Whilst in there he chaired a Working Party jointly sponsored by the Bishop's Conference and the National Conference of Priests looking at clergy appraisal.
The Working Party Report was accepted by the Bishop's Conference and since then he has spoken in a number of Dioceses about the reasons for and the benefits arising from clergy appraisal.
Lang was consecrated as Bishop of Clifton on 28 March 2001 in Clifton Cathedral, by his predecessor Bishop Mervyn Alexander.
Bishop Lang chairs the committee for Theology Faith and Culture.
He is the Co-Chair of the Anglican-Roman Catholic Committee (ARC) and also the Co-Chair for the Committee for Roman Catholic and United Reformed Church dialogue in England.
Bishop Lang was elected to be the Moderator of the next Churches Together in England Forum to be held in 2009.
He is a member of the Mixed Commission of Bishops and Major Religious Superiors and is a trustee of the Pontifical Missionary Societies.
Outside of the Bishops' Conference he is the President of the Catholic Association which organises the Pilgrimage to Lourdes on behalf of the Dioceses of Clifton, East Anglia, Northampton, Portsmouth, Southwark and Stoneyhurst College.
Within the diocese Bishop Lang instigated a review of Diocesan structures and as a result created the Diocesan Department for Evangelisation and Adult Education and a new Department for Schools and Colleges.
During this time the Diocesan Liturgical Commission has also been reformed.
In 2002 Bishop Lang was appointed an Ecumenical Prebendary of Bristol Cathedral.
He is the current Chairman of Somerset Churches Together and previous Chairman of Bristol Churches Together.
As part of his work as the chairman of the Department of International Affairs in the Catholic Bishops' Conference of England and Wales, Bishop Lang traveled to Lebanon at the request of the Maronite Catholic Church.
Bishop Lang hopes that the visit will 'deepen the relationship' between the Bishops of England and Wales and the Catholic community in Lebanon.
Bishop Lang said: "I felt the best way to show the Bishops' solidarity with the people of Lebanon and, in particular, the Maronite Catholic community was to accept the invitation to travel to the country and learn about the challenges, hopes and expectations of the people firsthand."
Secularization is the transformation of a society from close identification with religious values and institutions toward nonreligious values and secular institutions.
The secularization thesis refers to the belief that as societies progress, particularly through modernization and rationalization, religion loses its authority in all aspects of social life and governance.
The term secularization is also used in the context of the lifting of the monastic restrictions from a member of the clergy.
Secularization refers to the historical process in which religion loses social and cultural significance.
As a result of secularization the role of religion in modern societies becomes restricted.
In secularized societies faith lacks cultural authority, and religious organizations have little social power.
Secularization has many levels of meaning, both as a theory and a historical process.
Social theorists such as Karl Marx, Sigmund Freud, Max Weber, and Émile Durkheim, postulated that the modernization of society would include a decline in levels of religiosity.
Study of this process seeks to determine the manner in which, or extent to which religious creeds, practices and institutions are losing social significance.
Some theorists argue that the secularization of modern civilization partly results from our inability to adapt broad ethical and spiritual needs of mankind to the increasingly fast advance of the physical sciences.
The term also has additional meanings, primarily historical and religious.
Applied to church property, historically it refers to the seizure of monastic lands and buildings, such as Henry VIII's Dissolution of the Monasteries in England and the later acts during the French Revolution as well as by various anti-clerical European governments during the 18th and 19th centuries, which resulted in the expulsion and suppression of the religious communities which occupied them.
In Germany the Kulturkampf Was a failed effort to radically weaken the Roman Catholic Church; the Catholics responded by a powerful political organization.
Still another form of Secularization refers to the act of Prince-Bishops or holders of a position in a Monastic or Military Order - holding a combined religious and secular authority under the Catholic Church - who broke away and made themselves into completely secular (typically, Protestant) hereditary rulers.
For example, Gotthard von Kettler, the last Master of the Livonian Order, converted to Lutheranism, secularised (and took to himself) the lands of Semigallia and Courland which he had held on behalf of the order - which enabled him to marry and leave to his descendants the Duchy of Courland and Semigallia.
In the 1960s there was a dramatic shift toward secularization in Western Europe, North America (especially Québec), Australia, and New Zealand.
This transformation Was intertwined with major social factors: economic prosperity, youth rebelling against the rules and conventions of society, women's liberation, radical theology, and radical politics.
Secularization is sometimes credited both to the cultural shifts in society following the emergence of rationality and the development of science as a substitute for superstition—Max Weber called this process the "disenchantment of the world"—and to the changes made by religious institutions to compensate.
At the most basic stages, this begins with a slow transition from oral traditions to a writing culture that diffuses knowledge.
This first reduces the authority of clerics as the custodians of revealed knowledge.
As the responsibility for education has moved from the family and community to the state, two consequences have arisen: A major issue in the study of secularization is the extent to which certain trends such as decreased attendance at places of worship indicate a decrease in religiosity or simply a privatization of religious belief, where religious beliefs no longer play a dominant role in public life or in other aspects of decision making.
The issue of secularization is discussed in various religious traditions.
The government of Turkey is an often cited example, following the abolition of the Ottoman Caliphate and foundation of the Turkish republic in 1923.
This established popular sovereignty in a secular republican framework, in opposition to a system whose authority is based on religion.
As one of many examples of state modernization, this shows secularization and democratization as mutually reinforcing processes , relying on a separation of religion and state.
In expressly secular states like India, it has been argued that the need was to legislate for toleration and respect between quite different religions, and likewise, the secularization of the West was a response to drastically violent intra-Christian feuds between Catholicism and Protestantism.
Some have therefore argued that Western and Indian secularization is radically different in that it deals with autonomy from religious regulation and control.
Considerations of both tolerance and autonomy are relevant to any secular state.
John Somerville (1998) outlined six uses of the term secularization in the scientific literature.
The first five are more along the lines of 'definitions' while the sixth is more of a 'clarification of use': Abdel Wahab Elmessiri (2002) outlined two meanings of the secularization term: As studied by sociologists, one of the major themes of secularization is that of "differentiation"—i.e.,&nbsp;the tendency for areas of life to become more distinct and specialized as a society becomes modernized.
European sociology, influenced by anthropology, was interested in the process of change from the so-called primitive societies to increasingly advanced societies.
In the United States, the emphasis was initially on change as an aspect of progress, but Talcott Parsons refocused on society as a system immersed in a constant process of increased differentiation, which he saw as a process in which new institutions take over the tasks necessary in a society to guarantee its survival as the original monolithic institutions break up.
This is a devolution from single, less differentiated institutions to an increasingly differentiated subset of institutions.
Following Parsons, this concept of differentiation has been widely applied.
As phrased by Jose Casanova, this "core and the central thesis of the theory of secularization is the conceptualization of the process of societal modernization as a process of functional differentiation and emancipation of the secular spheres—primarily the state, the economy, and science—from the religious sphere and the concomitant differentiation and specialization of religion within its own newly found religious sphere".
Casanova also describes this as the theory of "privatization" of religion, which he partially criticizes.
While criticizing certain aspects of the traditional sociological theory of secularization, however, David Martin argues that the concept of social differentiation has been its "most useful element".
In most Western countries, government, nonprofits, and the private sector have taken over the provision of social welfare but in Germany, secularization has not occurred to the same degree.
There are still about 100,000 church-based charitable foundations providing services from preschool education to health care for the elderly , making the two major churches the second largest employers after government .
This is funded partly by the churches out of their own revenues, with the balance coming from general tax revenue .
Critics argue that by allowing the churches to play such a major role, the state is breaching its duty of neutrality under Article&nbsp;4 of the Grundgesetz, and they consider it inappropriate for heavy subsidies to be given to the churches.
On their part, the churches see this work as a natural part of their Christian mission .
At present, secularization as understood in the West is being debated in the sociology of religion.
In his works Legitimacy of the Modern Age (1966) and The Genesis of the Copernican World (1975), Hans Blumenberg has rejected the idea of a historical continuity - fundamental the so-called 'theorem of secularization'; the Modern age in his view represents an independent epoch opposed to Antiquity and the Middle Ages by a rehabilitation of human curiosity in reaction to theological absolutism.
"Blumenberg targets Löwith's argument that progress is the secularization of Hebrew and Christian beliefs and argues to the contrary that the modern age, including its belief in progress, grew out of a new secular self-affirmation of culture against the Christian tradition."
Wolfhart Pannenberg, a student of Löwith, has continued the debate against Blumenberg.
Charles Taylor in "A Secular Age" challenges what he calls 'the subtraction thesis' - that science leads to religion being subtracted from more and more areas of life.
Proponents of "secularization theory" demonstrate widespread declines in the prevalence of religious belief throughout the West, particularly in Europe.
Some scholars (e.g.,&nbsp;Rodney Stark, Peter Berger) have argued that levels of religiosity are not declining, while other scholars (e.g.,&nbsp;Mark Chaves, N.&nbsp;J. Demerath) have countered by introducing the idea of neo-secularization, which broadens the definition of secularization to include the decline of religious authority and its ability to influence society.
In other words, rather than using the proportion of irreligious apostates as the sole measure of secularity, neo-secularization argues that individuals increasingly look outside of religion for authoritative positions.
Neo-secularizationists would argue that religion has diminishing authority on issues such as birth control, and argue that religion's authority is declining and secularization is taking place even if religious affiliation may not be declining in the United States (a debate still taking place).
Finally, some claim that demographic forces offset the process of secularization, and may do so to such an extent that individuals can consistently drift away from religion even as society becomes more religious.
This is especially the case in societies like Israel (with the ultra-Orthodox and religious Zionists) where committed religious groups have several times the birth rate of seculars.
The religious fertility effect operates to a greater or lesser extent in all countries, and is amplified in the West by religious immigration.
For instance, even as native whites became more secular, London, England, has become more religious in the past 25 years as religious immigrants and their descendants have increased their share of the population.
In Britain, secularization came much later than in most of Western Europe.
It began in the 1960s, as part of a much larger social and cultural revolution.
Until then the postwar years had seen a revival of religiosity in Britain.
Sociologists and historians have engaged in vigorous debates over when it started, how fast it happened, and what caused it.
An important support system for organized religion was sponsorship by the royalty, aristocracy, and influential local gentry.
The sponsorship faded away in the 20th century, as the local elites were no longer so powerful or so financially able to subsidize their favorite activities.
In coal mining districts, local collieries typically funded local chapels, but that ended as the industry grew distressed and the unionized miners rejected elite interference in their local affairs.
This allowed secularizing forces to gain strength.
Dominic Erdozain traces the decline in the concept of "interior" sin to the evangelical emphasis on 19th century on "exterior" vice, especially intemperance.
One result was to undermine the soteriology that had inspired the religious boom.
Tracing a shift from an 'internal' concept of sin to an 'external' notion of vice.
Thereby it is argued that Evangelicalism created a mechanism that expedited secularization.
By 1947, trained social observers from Mass-Observation, reported seeing in everyday life:
Robert McKim (born December 29, 1952) is an American philosopher of religion.
He has degrees in philosophy from Trinity College Dublin and from the University of Calgary, and a Ph.D. in religious studies and philosophy from Yale University.
He is Professor of Religion and Professor of Philosophy at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign.
McKim has written extensively on the implications of religious diversity.
In Religious Ambiguity and Religious Diversity (Oxford, 2001) McKim appeals to the twin realities of religious ambiguity and religious diversity in making a case for a self-critical, open, and tentative approach to religious belief.
In On Religious Diversity (Oxford, 2011) he tackles the controversial issue of how religious traditions, and their members, ought to look on outsiders, their views, and their salvific prospects.
"Saving the World" is a song by Brooke Fraser, released as the third single from Fraser's debut album, What to Do with Daylight, in 2004.
"Saving the World" is a song about avoiding apathy in a relationship by discussing one's religious belief or faith.
The song debuted on the New Zealand Singles Chart on March 21, 2004, at number forty nine and peaked at number fifteen ten weeks later.
It spent a total of fifteen weeks on the chart.
Roy A. Clouser is Professor Emeritus of the College of New Jersey.
He has served as professor of philosophy and religion at the College since 1968.
Clouser earned his B.A, from Gordon College (Massachusetts), a B.D.
from Reformed Episcopal Seminary, and an M.A.
and Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania.
Clouser's philosophy Ph.D from the University of Pennsylvania was received in 1972 for his dissertation entitled "Transcendental Critique, Ontological Reduction, and Religious Belief in the Philosophy of Herman Dooyeweerd".
Modern Physics and Ancient Faith (2003) is a book by Stephen M. Barr, a physicist from the University of Delaware and frequent contributor to First Things.
This book is "an extended attack" on what Barr calls scientific materialism.
National Review says of the book: "[A] lucid and engaging survey of modern physics and its relation to religious belief.
.
.
.
Barr has produced a stunning tour de force .
.
.
[a] scientific and philosophical breakthrough."
The book is divided into five parts spanning 26 chapters.
The main religious and philosophical themes include determinism, mind as a machine, anthropic principle, and the big bang theory.
Its main thesis is that science and religion only appear in conflict because many have "conflated science with philosophical materialism."
Libertarians for Life (LFL) is a nonsectarian group expressing an opposition to abortion within the context of libertarianism.
Based in Wheaton, Maryland, Libertarians For Life believes abortion is not a right, but "a wrong under justice".
To explain and defend its stance on abortion, Libertarians For Life argues that: </ref> <blockquote> None of the arguments are based upon religious belief, and are intended to appeal equally to atheists and theists.
This is a point of pride for the group, claiming to rely on science and reason, while both pro-life allies and pro-choice opponents use what they view as non-scientific or unreasoned arguments.
Doris Gordon founded Libertarians For Life in 1976 "because some libertarian had to blow the whistle."
In 1988, the Libertarians For Life attempted to change the Libertarian Party position on abortion, so it would be similar to the party's 1988 presidential nominee, Ron Paul.
Albert Houtin (4 October 1867 – 28 July 1926) was a French Catholic theologian and historian with a focus on the history of doctrine and on modernism in French religion.
Born in La Flèche, he grew up to become a priest and was ordained in 1891.
Following the turn of the century, he became disenchanted with religion and came to regard all religious belief systems as fraudulent.
In 1907, he had attended the Fourth International Congress of Religious Liberals in Boston, which had been organised by Unitarians.
He died in Paris in 1926, leaving incomplete Courte Histoire du célibat ecclésiastique (Short History of Ecclesiastical Celibacy) in which he argues that the practice of celibacy among priests has been difficult to maintain throughout previous centuries.
Christians in Guinea-Bissau constitute approximately 10 percent (~153,300) of the country's population (1,533,964 - 2009 est.).
Other sources report, that the population of Christians in Guinea-Bissau may vary from 5 to 13% Guinea-Bissau is the only Portuguese-speaking nation with a Muslim majority, wherein others are mostly Christian.
Christians belong to a number of groups, including the Roman Catholic Church (including Portuguese Guinea-Bissauans) and various Protestant denominations.
Christians are concentrated in Bissau and other large towns.
Foreign missionaries operate in the country without restriction.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
In 2007, the US government received no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Most Christians in Guinea-Bissau are Roman Catholic (about 125,000 Catholics in Guinea-Bissau, or just under 10% of the total population).
Conciliationism is a view in the epistemology of disagreement according to which one should revise one's opinions closer to one's peers in the face of epistemic disagreement.
Nathan Ballantyne and E.J.
Coffman define the view as follows: Philosopher David Christensen has been a prominent defender of this view.
Others have argued in its favor as well.
Some have discussed the implications of this view for religious belief.
A standard objection is that conciliationism is self-undermining because most philosophers don't accept it.
A number of responses have been offered.
Tyler Cowen and Robin Hanson have argued that many disagreements are "dishonest" because in the face of peer disagreement, people typically favor their own positions for various reasons.
This stands in contrast to results like Aumann's agreement theorem suggesting they should update their beliefs in each other's directions.
Bible and Spade is a quarterly magazine published by the inerrantist Associates for Biblical Research, explicitly committed to the use of archaeology to demonstrate the historical veracity of the Old and New Testaments.
The magazine concentrates largely on matters relating to archaeology and Bible history, but also touches on general apologetics (especially the relationship between science and evangelical religious belief) and Christian devotion.
The editor-in-chief is Bryant G. Wood.
Douglas Krueger is an American philosopher, academic and author.
He is best known as a proponent of atheism and an advocate of skepticism regarding supernatural and paranormal claims.
Krueger has been a featured speaker at numerous atheist and humanist conventions and gatherings and is a co-founder of the Fayetteville Freethinkers, a secular humanist organization in Fayetteville, Arkansas.
His book, What is Atheism: A Short Introduction, is a concise and hard-hitting—though some have claimed unfairly biased—critique of religious belief, especially Christianity.
In addition, he has discussed his atheistic views on numerous radio shows and participated in more than a dozen debates across the United States on the existence of God and secular ethics.
Krueger resides in Fayetteville, Arkansas, is father to four children, and is employed as a full-time faculty member at Northwest Arkansas Community College, where he teaches philosophy.
He holds bachelors, masters, and doctoral degrees in philosophy.
The State Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and the entity Constitutions of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska provide for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in ethnically integrated areas or in areas where government officials are of the majority religion; the state-level Law on Religious Freedom also provides comprehensive rights to religious communities.
However, local authorities sometimes restricted the right to worship of adherents of religious groups in areas where such persons are in the minority.
54% of Herzegovinian and Bosnian Muslims are non-denominational Muslims.
Government protection of religious freedom declined, especially during the campaign period prior to the October 2006 national elections, due to selective legal enforcement and the indifference of some government officials.
At the end of the period covered by this report, the Government was implementing the State Law on Religious Freedom to protect the rights of religious communities and create a government registry allowing them to establish legal status.
Societal abuses and discrimination based on religious belief and practice persisted.
Religious intolerance directly reflected ethnic intolerance because of the virtually indistinguishable identification of ethnicity with religious background.
Discrimination against religious minorities occurred in nearly all parts of the country.
In some communities local religious leaders and politicians contributed to intolerance and an increase in nationalism through public statements and sermons.
A number of illegally constructed religious objects continued to cause ethnic/religious tension and conflict in various communities.
Religious symbols were often misused for political purposes.
In a 2009 Gallup poll, 77% of respondents in Bosnia and Herzegovina answered 'yes' to the question "Is religion an important part of your daily life?
", , while 21% responded negatively.
In 1800 40% of Bosnians were Orthodox and nearly half were Muslim.
Islam peaked in 1600 when three-quarters of Bosnians followed it.
Bosniaks are generally associated with Islam, Bosnian Croats with the Roman Catholic Church, and Bosnian Serbs with the Serb Orthodox Church.
Today, Muslims constitute 45% of the population, Christian 52%, and other groups 2% (including nonreligious, Jews).
The Jewish community has approximately 1,000 believers and maintains a historic place in society by virtue of centuries of coexistence with other religious communities and its active role in mediating among those communities.
The rate of religious observance is relatively low among the traditional religious groups; however, some areas of significantly greater observance exist, such as among Catholic Croats in the Herzegovina region and among Bosnian Muslims in central Bosnia.
For many Bosnian Muslims, religion often serves as a community or ethnic identifier, and religious practice is confined to occasional visits to the mosque or significant rites of passage such as birth, marriage, and death.
Nevertheless, religious leaders from the Muslim, Catholic, and Orthodox communities claimed that all forms of observance were increasing among young persons as an expression of increased identification with their ethnic heritage, in large part due to the national religious revival that occurred as a result of the 1992–95 Bosnian war.
Younger believers who grew up in the post-communist period also have more freedom to practice their religion and more access to religious education.
Leaders from the three largest religious communities observed that they enjoyed greater support from their believers in rural areas of Bosnia than from those in urban centers such as Sarajevo or Banja Luka.
Ethnic cleansing during the 1992–95 war caused internal migration and refugee flows, which segregated the population into separate ethnoreligious areas.
Increased levels of returns, which peaked in 2002, continued to slow significantly, leaving the majority of Serb Orthodox adherents living in the RS and the majority of Muslims and Catholics in the Federation.
Within the Federation, distinct Muslim and Catholic majority areas remain.
However, returns of Serb Orthodox adherents and Muslims in recent years to their prewar homes in western Bosnia and Muslims to their prewar homes in eastern Bosnia have shifted the ethnoreligious composition in both areas.
For example, the prewar population of the eastern RS town of Bratunac was 64% Bosniak.
In 1995 the population was almost completely Serb; in 2007, after the return of 6,500 Bosniaks, the population was 38% Bosniak.
Similarly, in Prijedor Municipality in the RS, approximately half of the prewar Bosniak population of 49,500 returned, partially reversing the effects of ethnic cleansing.
Christians, on the other hand, seem to rarely move back to their old towns; the number of Catholics returning to central Bosnia and the RS, as well as of Serbs returning to the Federation, was negligible.
The Catholic community maintains its Bishops' Conference as an overarching organizational and regional structure, with bishops residing in Mostar, Banja Luka, and Sarajevo; the Franciscan order maintains its strongest presence in central Bosnia near Sarajevo and in Herzegovina.
The Serb Orthodox Church maintains its greatest influence in the RS, with the most influential bishops residing in Banja Luka, Trebinje, and Bijeljina.
The Jewish community, like most other small religious groups in Bosnia, including Protestants, has its strongest membership in Sarajevo.
There are several small Christian denominations throughout the country.
In late 2011, a Rodnover association named Svaroži Krug, was established in the nation as a part of the panslavic Praskozorje movement.
There are eight muftis (Islamic scholars) located in major municipalities: Sarajevo, Bihać, Travnik, Tuzla, Goražde, Zenica, Mostar, and Banja Luka.
The more conservative Islamic communities in Bosnia are located in towns such as Travnik, Bocinja/Zavidovici, Tesanj, Maglaj, Bugojno, and Zenica.
38% of Herzegovinian and Bosnian Muslims described themselves as Sunni Muslims while 54% described themselves as nondenominational Muslims.
However 7% of Muslims either refused to answer which Muslim branch they belonged to, said they belonged to no Muslim branch or said they did not know.
The State Constitution provides for freedom of religion; however, respect for religious freedom declined due to selective legal enforcement and indifference of some government officials, which allowed societal violence and the threat of violence to restrict the ability to worship of adherents of religious groups in areas where they are in the minority.
On October 16, 2006, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees issued instructions for implementation of the Law on Religious Freedom, which provides for freedom of religion, ensures legal status of churches and religious communities, and prohibits any form of discrimination against any religious community.
The law also provides the basis for the establishment of relations between the state and religious communities.
The State Constitution safeguards the rights of the three major ethnic groups (Bosniaks, Serbs, and Croats), and by extension the three largest religious communities, by providing proportional representation for each group in the government and in the armed forces.
As a result of the governmental structure created by the Dayton Accords, parliamentary seats and most government positions are apportioned specifically to members of the three "constituent peoples."
These stipulations often result in constitutional discrimination against "others" and sympathizers of certain religious communities that do not fit neatly into the three groups.
During the period covered by this report, members of the Bosnian Jewish and the Romani communities filed separate lawsuits before the European Court of Human Rights to address this discrimination against those considered "others" by the State Constitution.
Their claims were not addressed during the reporting period.
Bosnia's state-level government does not officially recognize any religious holy days as an official holiday, and Parliament continued to disagree on a state law on national holidays.
Entity and cantonal authorities routinely recognize religious holidays celebrated by members of the area's majority religion, with government and public offices closed on those days.
In May 2007 the RS Constitutional Court overruled a Vital National Interest veto by Bosniaks in the RS Council of Peoples, thus enabling the RS National Assembly to pass the Law on Holidays in the RS, which includes observance of RS Day on January 9.
Locally observed holy days include Orthodox Easter and Christmas in the RS, Catholic Easter and Christmas in Herzegovina, and Kurban Bajram and Ramadan Bajram in Sarajevo and central Bosnia.
On January 27, 2007, BiH officially marked Holocaust Day for the first time and commemorated the day with a series of exhibitions, lectures, and discussions throughout the country.
The State Law on Religious Freedom governs religion and the licensing of religious groups, and it provides for the right to freedom of conscience and religion in Bosnia.
It grants churches and religious communities legal status and allows them concessions that are characteristic of a nongovernmental organization (NGO).
The law also creates a unified register for all religious groups within the Bosnian Ministry of Justice, while the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is tasked with documenting violations of religious freedom.
According to the law, any group of 300 adult citizens may apply to form a new church or religious community with a written application to the Ministry of Justice.
The Ministry of Justice will issue a decision within 30 days of the application, and an appeal may be made to the Bosnian Council of Ministers.
The law allows minority religious organizations to register legally and operate without unwarranted restrictions.
At the end of the period covered by this report, the Alliance of Baptist Churches awaited registration confirmation.
Political parties dominated by a single ethnic group remained powerful and continued to identify closely with the religion associated with their predominant ethnic group.
Many political party leaders were former communists who manipulated the core attributes of their particular ethnic group, including religion, to strengthen their credibility with voters.
For example, offices of local Bosnian Serb mayors in the RS were often decorated with religious icons, although few officials practiced religion in any meaningful sense.
In recent years many Bosnians have turned to their respective religious leaders to fill the void left by politicians, who are perceived by the public as apathetic or corrupt.
This enabled religious leaders to play an influential political role, often promoting nationalist platforms, in the 2006 national elections and subsequent government formation as well as in political programs.
The lines dividing politics, ethnic identity, and religion were often blurred, particularly during the period prior to the 2006 national elections and during the public debate over proposed changes to the Bosnian Constitution.
Some religious leaders became increasingly political and vocal in this period and used religious sermons and services for political campaign purposes.
Political candidates courted religious leaders during the campaign season and were often photographed together in campaign propaganda and media reports.
Religious leaders also used their position to influence the election outcome by encouraging their communities to vote for certain individuals or parties.
For example, prior to the elections Bosnia's Catholic bishops issued a pastoral letter that was read in every Catholic church on July 2, 2006, in place of the traditional Sunday sermon.
The letter reminded believers of the importance of their vote and encouraged Croat parties to form coalitions so that no Croat vote would be wasted.
It also urged them to oppose U.S.-brokered constitutional amendments "through which war horrors would be legalized and the Croat people marginalized."
During the preelection period, the media and others often criticized the head of the BiH Islamic community for his appearance at public events with presidential candidate Haris Silajdzic and for his public statements calling on Silajdzic to "write a new constitution" so Bosniaks would honor him as they do wartime president Alija Izetbegovic.
The State Law on Religious Freedom reaffirms the right of every citizen to religious education.
The law calls for an official representative of the various churches or religious communities to be responsible for teaching religious studies in all public and private preschools, primary schools, and universities throughout Bosnia.
These individuals are employees of the municipality in which they teach but have been accredited by the religious body governing the curriculum.
However, the law was not always fully implemented, particularly in segregated school systems or where there was political resistance from nationalist party officials at the municipal level.
During the period covered by this report, the entity, cantonal, and municipal governments gave varying levels of financial support to the four traditional religious communities - Muslim, Serb Orthodox, Catholic, and Jewish.
Religious communities tended to receive the most funding in areas where their adherents were in the majority.
Religious education is largely decentralized, as is the education system generally.
Public schools offer religious education classes, but with some exceptions, schools generally offer religious instruction only in the municipality's majority religion.
By law, students (or their parents, in the case of primary school students) may choose not to attend the classes.
However, students of the majority religion and sometimes also of minority religious groups faced pressure from teachers and peers to attend religious instruction, and most did so.
Children who are reluctant to be singled out as different from their classmates often attend instruction of the majority religion, even if it is not the religion they practice at home.
If a sufficient number of students of minority religious group(s) attend a particular school (20 in the RS, 15 in the Federation), the school must organize religion classes on their behalf.
However, in rural areas there are usually no qualified religious representatives available to teach religious studies to the handful of minority students.
Minority students are often widely scattered across remote areas, making it logistically difficult to provide classes even when a teacher is available.
In the Federation's five cantons with Bosniak majorities, schools offer Islamic religious instruction as a 2-hour-per-week elective course.
In cantons with Croat majorities, all Croat students attend the "elective" 1-hour weekly Catholic religion course for primary and middle schools.
Use of religious symbolism by the majority group in art classes, such as minority children in Bosniak majority areas being tasked to draw mosques or those in Christian majority areas being asked to draw crosses, continued to be a problem.
Parents may enroll their children in private schools for religious reasons.
In Sarajevo, Tuzla, Travnik, Visoko, Mostar, and Bihać, Muslim students may attend madrassahs.
These Islamic secondary schools provide training for students who want to become religious officials as well as general education to prepare students for university studies.
There is one Serb Orthodox secondary school in Foca.
In Sarajevo, Tuzla, Travnik, Zepce, Banja Luka, Bihac, and Zenica, students may attend Catholic school centers.
Although primarily Croat, these schools are open to students of other ethnicities and religious groups.
Some of these centers have both primary and secondary schools, and although the principals are priests, the majority of teachers are not religious officials.
The curriculum is a combination of Bosniak and Croat curricula used in the Federation.
Facilities also exist for the three largest religious communities at the university level.
The Faculty of Islamic Sciences is located in Sarajevo, the Serb Orthodox Seminary in Foca in the RS, and two Catholic theology faculties (one run by the Franciscans and one run by the diocese) in Sarajevo.
Weak administrative and judicial systems effectively restricted religious freedom and posed major obstacles to safeguarding the rights of religious minorities.
In some cases local governments made improvements in protecting religious freedom; however, serious problems remained, including an atmosphere in which violations of religious freedom occurred.
For example, local police rarely made arrests in cases of vandalism against religious buildings or violence and harassment against religious officials or believers.
Successful prosecutions were extremely rare.
Local police frequently alleged that juveniles, intoxicated individuals, or mentally unstable persons were responsible for these attacks.
Lack of uniform protection posed obstacles to safeguarding minority rights, despite improved police and judicial protection for minorities in some parts of the country.
Ethnic quotas set for the recruitment of new officers into police academies were observed, but reforms intended to establish a countrywide effective, professional, multiethnic police force failed.
Police forces as well as entity and local governments frequently allowed or encouraged an atmosphere in which violations of religious freedom could take place.
In some cases the reluctance of police and prosecutors to aggressively investigate and prosecute crimes against religious minorities remained a major obstacle to safeguarding the rights of religious minorities.
The appropriation of religious symbols and buildings for political purposes in combination with restrictions on religious services and ceremonies had a negative impact on interreligious dialogue and interethnic relations in many communities.
Authorities of the majority religious or ethnic group often discriminated against those of the minority group in matters related to municipal services, including security and education.
Governments at the local level restricted religious services and ceremonies.
In the eastern RS municipality of Bratunac, the Serb majority municipal assembly repeatedly denied a permit for the Islamic community to build a cemetery and memorial on its property surrounding a downtown mosque.
Bosniak organizers hoped to bury 98 identified victims of a 1992 massacre in Bratunac in which more than 600 persons, including the local imam, were killed.
Organizers planned to hold the burials at the mosque on May 12, 2007, the 15th anniversary of the massacre, but Serb veterans' associations and local residents protested the planned burials.
The mayor and assembly denied the building permit, claiming that the proposed cemetery and memorial had not been envisioned in the town's urban plan.
After more than a year of repeated requests and appeals from Bosniak organizers, the RS Government and the international community intervened, and the parties reached a last-minute agreement that enabled the burials to take place at a different location on the planned date.
Religious officials of Sarajevo's minority populations complained of discrimination by local authorities regarding the use of religious property, obstructionism in municipal services, and daily harassment such as the frequent towing of vehicles parked near churches and church offices.
In September 2006 in the eastern RS town of Zvornik, the Saint Sava primary school launched the new school year with a religious ceremony chaired by a Serb Orthodox priest in the presence of more than 100 Bosniak students and parents.
The incident received strong condemnation from the Islamic community, Bosniak associations, and the RS Minister of Education and Culture, who called the decision "inappropriate."
However, school officials saw no problem with the event and indicated that it was a 15-year tradition to begin the school year in this manner and that attendance was not obligatory.
There were a number of controversial and highly politicized cases involving the illegal construction of religious buildings or monuments on private or government-owned land.
In these cases the buildings or monuments were built to send a political message to minority believers about the dominance of the majority ethnoreligious group in that area, creating ethnic tensions and impeding the process of reconciliation.
An illegally constructed Serb Orthodox church remained on the land of a Bosniak returnee in the town of Konjevic Polje in the eastern RS, despite the RS Ministry of Urban Planning's 2004 decision that the church should be removed.
On September 11, 2006, for the second consecutive year, the local Orthodox priest celebrated Mass in the church, which was attended by a large number of antagonists singing nationalist songs and wearing nationalist clothing.
Local police were present, and there was no violence.
In June 2007 RS and Serb Orthodox Church officials agreed in principle to relocate the church but had not found an alternate location by the end of the period covered by this report.
A wooden Serb Orthodox church unlawfully built on private Bosniak-owned land in the town of Kotorsko continued to be the source of legal and ethnic conflict.
Although deadlines were set by authorities for removal of the church, no action had been taken by the end of the period covered by this report.
The presence of a large stone cross and cement foundations for the eventual addition of more crosses in the ethnically divided town of Stolac in Herzegovina also remained contentious.
In 2004 Federation authorities ordered the removal of the cross and foundations; however, the removal was delayed pending the outcome of a 2004 lawsuit on the legality of the Federation Government's decision.
In September 2006 the Federation Constitutional Court upheld the constitutionality of the law, and the Federation Ministry of Spatial Planning was able again to launch an initiative for removal of the cross and foundations.
While the Federation Ministry of Spatial Planning had the legal authority to undertake such an initiative, it was reluctant to do so out of concern that the action would increase interethnic tensions during the election year.
In May 2007 members of a Bosniak NGO illegally destroyed the additional foundations, but the cross remained.
Ttraditional religious communities all had extensive claims for restitution of property that the communist government of the former Yugoslavia nationalized after World War II.
The State Law on Religious Freedom provides religious communities the right to restitution of expropriated property throughout the country "in accordance with the law."
A special multiethnic restitution commission completed its mandate and delivered a draft restitution law to the Council of Ministers in early 2007 for approval.
However, as of mid-2007 no action had been taken, and many believed that the law would not be passed without changes.
In the absence of any state legislation specifically governing restitution, return of former religious properties continued on an ad hoc basis at the discretion of municipal officials but was usually completed only in favor of the majority group.
Many officials used property restitution cases as a tool of political patronage, rendering religious leaders dependent on politicians to regain property taken from religious communities.
Other unresolved restitution claims were politically and legally complicated.
For example, the Serbian Orthodox Church continued to seek the return of the building that housed the University of Sarajevo's Economic Faculty and compensation for the land on which the state parliament building is located.
The Jewish and Muslim communities also asserted historic claims to many commercial and residential properties in Sarajevo.
The Catholic community maintained a large number of similar claims in Banja Luka.
In May 2007 the Islamic community began proceedings against the RS city of Banja Luka seeking damages of approximately $1.1 million (1.5 million Bosnian convertible marks) for the wartime destruction of all mosques in the city.
The Islamic community filed the original lawsuit in 2000 but began proceedings again when an out-of-court settlement failed because the city would not make the requested admission of guilt.
During the period covered by this report, the Federation municipality of Travnik partially complied with a 2003 decision by the Human Rights Chamber (renamed the Human Rights Commission of the Constitutional Court) ordering the municipal government to relocate a public school housed in a building formerly owned by the Catholic archdiocese.
The municipality returned half the building to the archdiocese for use as part of its Catholic school center.
However, the other half remained in use as a public school.
The court ordered the public school to move out of the building by July 1, 2006, but by that date authorities had not allocated funding for a new school building, and the building remained in use as a public school.
Minority religious communities also encountered difficulty in obtaining permits for new churches and mosques.
The Catholic Church continued to seek permission, first solicited in 2000, to build a new church in the Sarajevo neighborhood of Grbavica but complained that the local authorities, a Bosniak majority, refused to grant the permit.
There were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country, or of forced religious conversion.
There were reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice, and prominent societal leaders did not always take positive steps to promote religious freedom.
Compared to the previous reporting period, attacks on religious objects and religious officials increased significantly, particularly in the campaign months before the national elections, during which nationalist rhetoric employed by certain political parties heightened religious and ethnic tensions.
Minority religious buildings, clerics, and communities bore the brunt of retaliation for discrimination and violence perpetrated by members of their religious/ethnic groups in areas where those groups constituted the majority.
Because they are powerful symbols of religious identification and ethnicity, clerics and religious buildings were favored targets.
Most religious leaders severely criticized violence and nationalism against their own group but could be less vocal in condemning acts against members of other groups.
Those in the majority religious or ethnic group had an advantage in employment opportunities.
Discrimination remained a serious problem in the RS, particularly in the eastern part, and in Croat-dominated areas of the Federation; discrimination against non-Muslims appeared to worsen in some Bosniak-majority areas where more conservative Islamic communities resided.
Sarajevo, the Bosniak-majority capital, preserved in part its traditional role as a multiethnic city; however, complaints of discrimination persisted.
Some non-Muslims reported feeling isolated and marginalized in the capital.
The number of incidents against religious symbols, clerics, and property in all three ethnic majority areas increased, especially during the period immediately prior to the October 2006 national elections.
Local police generally did not conduct serious investigations into such incidents.
For example, in July 2006 unidentified perpetrators sprayed gunfire into a Muslim cemetery in Trebinje, damaging several tombstones.
In the same month and city, unidentified persons also threw an explosive device at the home of a Bosniak returnee.
When police concluded that the attacks were the pranks of local youngsters, the local Muslim community called for the dismissal of the police chief for not performing a full investigation.
Similar reports of local police assigning blame for these incidents on pranksters, drunkards, or the mentally unstable were frequent.
There were a number of acts of violence and vandalism against Muslim religious targets throughout the country.
In October 2006 a rocket-propelled grenade destroyed a large portion of the Jasenica Mosque near Mostar; this was the most severe attack since the end of the war.
The Jasenica Mosque became a source of controversy when local Croats objected to its reconstruction on grounds that its new design violated a law permitting only reconstruction in the same style as the original prewar building.
City officials ordered removal of the mosque, but the order had not been carried out before the attack.
In September 2006 the Carsijska Mosque in Bosanska Dubica was also repeatedly vandalized.
In August 2006 an explosive device was detonated at the grave of former president Alija Izetbegovic, destroying his tombstone and leaving a large crater at the grave.
Serb Orthodox sites were also targets of vandalism.
In December 2006 unknown individuals stoned the Orthodox church in Kakanj, and in November 2006 several gravestones in the Orthodox cemetery in the village of Mioci were damaged.
In August 2006 unidentified persons wrote threatening, anti-Serb graffiti on the Serb Orthodox church in Petrovo.
Also in August unknown perpetrators damaged several tombstones and broke a large number of vases at the Orthodox cemetery in Ljubinici and broke windows and damaged the entrance door of the Orthodox church in Gracanica.
Catholic religious objects were also the targets of vandalism.
In September 2006 unknown persons broke the glass on the entrance door to a Catholic church in the Sarajevo neighborhood of Grbavica.
The church was the subject of controversy because the Catholic community had requested a permit to build a new church, which local authorities had yet to approve.
Also in September, in the Orasje neighborhood near Tuzla, persons damaged the doors and windows of the cemetery chapel and moved religious statues.
Protestant churches also were vandalized.
On Easter Sunday 2007 several churches in Sarajevo were burglarized and documents about the congregation, specifically the lists of those who had been baptized, were stolen.
Some churches faced repeated break-ins and complained that the local police made no efforts to find those responsible but instead intimidated church officials by calling them in for lengthy interrogations.
The leaders of the four traditional religious communities participated in the Interreligious Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which continued to operate despite occasional significant disagreements and funding constraints.
The Catholic and Orthodox bishops of the country continued to meet regularly to discuss matters of mutual concern.
During the week of ecumenical dialogue in April 2007, the head of the BiH Catholic Church, Vinko Puljic, led a service at Sarajevo's Orthodox cathedral, and the head of the BiH Serb Orthodox Church, Metropolitan Nikolaj, held a service at Sarajevo's Catholic cathedral.
The bishop of Mostar-Duvno-Trebinje-Mrkan Bishopric, Ratko Peric, met with the mufti of Mostar, Seid Effendi Smajkic, for the first time since the end of the war, and during Bajram Bishop Peric extended congratulations to Muslims in the region.
Both events helped to reopen channels of communication in the country's most segregated city.
In September 2006 Serb Orthodox Bishop Vasilije and then-Minister for Human Rights and Refugees Mirsad Kebo negotiated to remove a Serb Orthodox church built on the site of a destroyed mosque in the eastern RS village of Divic.
Although these negotiations marked a positive resolution to a controversial and longstanding conflict, the church had not been removed by the end of the period covered by this report.
<gallery> File:Pocitelj Panorama.JPG|Mosque, Počitelj, constructed 1561 File:Džamija, Mostar040845.JPG|Mosque, Mostar, from the 17th century File:Манастирска црква у Крупи на Врбасу.jpg|Krupa Monastery, near Banja Luka File:Ali Pasha's Mosque, Sarajevo.jpg|Ali Pasha's Mosque in Sarajevo File:Grude-crkva sv.
Katarine.jpg|Church of St. Catherine (Grude) File:Manastir Moštanica RS.JPG|Moštanica monastery, near Kozarska Dubica File:Адвентистичка црква у Бањој Луци.jpg|Adventist Church in Banja Luka File:Sinagogadoboj.JPG|Synagogue in Doboj File:Хаџи Зулфикар џамија (Новоселија).j jpg|Hadži Zulfikar Mosque in Banja Luka File:Mostar Kath v S1.jpg|Church of St. Peter and Paul (Mostar) File:Sarajevo ortodox church.JPG|Serb Orthodox Cathedral (Sarajevo) File:Sarajevo Synagogue 02.j jpg|Sarajevo Synagogue File:Šarena džamija.jpg|Mosque in Travnik File:Ukrajinska grkokatolička crkva Hrista Carja.jpg|Greek Catholic church in Banja Luka
The 1 February 2010 Baghdad Bombings was a suicide bombing in Baghdad Iraq which killed at least 54 people, and wounded another 100.
The attack was aimed at a group of Shia pilgrims walking to a religious festival.
The female suicide bomber blew herself up at a rest stop along the route the pilgrims were taking to a Shia religious festival held in Karbala.
The rest stop had a security search area, which is where the bomber detonated her explosives belt.
There was a similar attack on the same pilgrims last year, which killed 40.
Nine and a Half Mystics: The Kabbala Today is a 1969 book on Jewish mysticism by Rabbi Herbert Weiner.
The book includes interviews with a number of Jewish mystics and scholars, as well as the author's encounters with various Jewish groups practicing who incorporate mysticism in their religious practice.
Nine and a Half Mystics explores themes on Kabbalah and Jewish mysticism as well as those Jewish groups where the mystical tradition is active.
Weiner, a Reform rabbi, based the book on his travels to various Jewish communities in his search for Jewish mysticism.
For many American Jews, Weiner's work was their first exposure to the Jewish mystical tradition.
Nine and a Half Mystics includes a number of interviews with Jewish mystics and scholars including: In addition to interviews, Rabbi Weiner also travelled to various Jewish communities where Jewish mysticism is incorporated in religious practice.
Weiner visited the Chabad-Lubavitch movement in Brooklyn, the Breslov community in New York and Israel, among others.
Sacred architecture (also known as religious architecture) is a religious architectural practice concerned with the design and construction of places of worship and/or sacred or intentional space, such as churches, mosques, stupas, synagogues, and temples.
Many cultures devoted considerable resources to their sacred architecture and places of worship.
Religious and sacred spaces are amongst the most impressive and permanent monolithic buildings created by humanity.
Conversely, sacred architecture as a locale for meta-intimacy may also be non-monolithic, ephemeral and intensely private, personal and non-public.
Sacred, religious and holy structures often evolved over centuries and were the largest buildings in the world, prior to the modern skyscraper.
While the various styles employed in sacred architecture sometimes reflected trends in other structures, these styles also remained unique from the contemporary architecture used in other structures.
With the rise of Abrahamic monotheisms (particularly Christianity and Islam), religious buildings increasingly became centres of worship, prayer and meditation.
The Western scholarly discipline of the history of architecture itself closely follows the history of religious architecture from ancient times until the Baroque period, at least.
Sacred geometry, iconography and the use of sophisticated semiotics such as signs, symbols and religious motifs are endemic to sacred architecture.
Sacred and/or religious architecture is sometimes called sacred space.
Architect Norman L. Koonce has suggested that the goal of sacred architecture is to make "transparent the boundary between matter and mind, flesh and the spirit."
In discussing sacred architecture, Protestant minister Robert Schuller suggested that "to be psychologically healthy, human beings need to experience their natural setting—the setting we were designed for, which is the garden."
Meanwhile, Richard Kieckhefer suggests that entering into a religious building is a metaphor for entering into spiritual relationship.
Kieckhefer suggests that sacred space can be analyzed by three factors affecting spiritual process: longitudinal space emphasizes the procession and return of sacramental acts, auditorium space is suggestive of proclamation and response, and new forms of communal space designed for gathering and return depend to a great degree on minimized scale to enhance intimacy and participation in worship.
Sacred architecture spans a number of ancient architectural styles including Neolithic architecture, ancient Egyptian architecture and Sumerian architecture.
Ancient religious buildings, particularly temples, were often viewed as the dwelling place, the temenos, of the gods and were used as the site of various kinds of sacrifice.
Ancient tombs and burial structures are also examples of architectural structures reflecting religious beliefs of their various societies.
The Temple of Karnak at Thebes, Egypt was constructed across a period of 1300 years and its numerous temples comprise what may be the largest religious structure ever built.
Ancient Egyptian religious architecture has fascinated archaeologists and captured the public imagination for millennia.
Around 600 BCE the wooden columns of the Temple of Hera at Olympia were replaced by stone columns.
With the spread of this process to other sanctuary structures a few stone buildings have survived through the ages.
Greek architecture preceded Hellenistic and Roman periods (Roman architecture heavily copied Greek).
Since temples are the only buildings which survive in numbers, most of our concept of classical architecture is based on religious structures.
The Parthenon which served as a treasury building as well as a place for veneration of deity, is widely regarded as the greatest example of classical architecture.
Indian architecture is related to the history and religions of the time periods as well as to the geography and geology of the Indian subcontinent.
India was crisscrossed by trading routes of merchants from as far away as Siraf and China as well as weathering invasions by foreigners, resulting in multiple influences of foreign elements on native styles.
The diversity of Indian culture is represented in its architecture.
Indian architecture comprises a blend of ancient and varied native traditions, with building types, forms and technologies from West, Central Asia, and Europe.
Buddhist architecture developed in South Asia beginning in the third century BCE.
Two types of structures are associated with early Buddhism: viharas and stupas.
Originally, Viharas were temporary shelters used by wandering monks during the rainy season, but these structures later developed to accommodate the growing and increasingly formalized Buddhist monasticism.
An existing example is at Nalanda (Bihar).
The initial function of the stupa was the veneration and safe-guarding of the relics of the Buddha.
The earliest existing example of a stupa is in Sanchi (Madhya Pradesh).
In accordance with changes in religious practice, stupas were gradually incorporated into chaitya-grihas (stupa halls).
These reached their highpoint in the first century BCE, exemplified by the cave complexes of Ajanta and Ellora (Maharashtra).
The pagoda is an evolution of the Indian stupa that is marked by a tiered tower with multiple eaves common in China, Japan, Korea, Nepal and other parts of Asia.
Buddhist temples were developed rather later and outside South Asia, where Buddhism gradually declined from the early centuries CE onwards, though an early example is that of the Mahabodhi Temple at Bodh Gaya in Bihar.
The architectural structure of the stupa spread across Asia, taking on many diverse forms as details specific to different regions were incorporated into the overall design.
It was spread to China and the Asian region by Araniko, a Nepali architect in the early 13th century for Kublai Khan.
Hindu temple architecture is based on Sthapatya Veda and many other ancient religious texts like the Brihat Samhita, Vastu Shastra and Shilpa Shastras in accordance to the design principles and guidelines believed to have been laid by the divine architect Vishvakarma.
It evolved over a period of more than 2000 years.
The Hindu architecture conforms to strict religious models that incorporate elements of astronomy and sacred geometry.
In Hindu belief, the temple represents the macrocosm of the universe as well as the microcosm of inner space.
While the underlying form of Hindu temple architecture follows strict traditions, considerable variation occurs with the often intense decorative embellishments and ornamentation.
A basic Hindu temple consists of an inner sanctum, the garbhagriha or womb-chamber, a congregation hall, and possibly an antechamber and porch.
The sanctum is crowned by a tower-like shikhara.
The Hindu temple represents Mount Meru, the axis of the universe.
There are strict rules which describe the themes and sculptures on the outer walls of the temple buildings.
The two primary styles that have developed are the Nagara style of Northern India and the Dravida style of Southern India.
A prominent difference between the two styles are the elaborate gateways employed in the South.
They are also easily distinguishable by the shape and decoration of their shikharas.
The Nagara style is beehive-shaped while the Dravida style is pyramid-shaped.
Byzantine architecture evolved from Roman architecture.
Eventually, a style emerged incorporating Near East influences and the Greek cross plan for church design.
In addition, brick replaced stone, classical order was less strictly observed, mosaics replaced carved decoration, and complex domes were erected.
One of the great breakthroughs in the history of Western architecture occurred when Justinian's architects invented a complex system providing for a smooth transition from a square plan of the church to a circular dome (or domes) by means of squinches or pendentives.
The prime example of early Byzantine religious architecture is the Hagia Sophia in Istanbul.
Byzantine architecture had a great influence on early Islamic architecture with its characteristic round arches, vaults and domes.
Many forms of mosques have evolved in different regions of the Islamic world.
Notable mosque types include the early Abbasid mosques, T-type mosques, and the central-dome mosques of Anatolia.
The earliest styles in Islamic architecture produced Arab-plan or hypostyle mosques during the Umayyad Dynasty.
These mosques follow a square or rectangular plan with enclosed courtyard and covered prayer hall.
Most early hypostyle mosques had flat prayer hall roofs, which required numerous columns and supports.
The Mezquita in Córdoba, Spain was constructed as a hypostyle mosque supported by over 850 columns.
Arab-plan mosques continued under the Abbasid dynasty.
The Ottomans introduced central dome mosques in the 15th century that have a large dome centered over the prayer hall.
In addition to having one large dome at the center, there are often smaller domes that exist off-center over the prayer hall or throughout the rest of the mosque, in areas where prayer is not performed.
The Dome of the Rock mosque in Jerusalem is perhaps the best known example of a central dome mosque.
Iwan mosques are most notable for their domed chambers and iwans, which are vaulted spaces open out on one end.
In iwan mosques, one or more iwans face a central courtyard that serves as the prayer hall.
The style represents a borrowing from pre-Islamic Iranian architecture and has been used almost exclusively for mosques in Iran.
Many iwan mosques are converted Zoroastrian fire temples where the courtyard was used to house the sacred fire.
Today, iwan mosques are no longer built.
The Shah Mosque in Isfahan, Iran is a classic example of an iwan mosque.
A common feature in mosques is the minaret, the tall, slender tower that usually is situated at one of the corners of the mosque structure.
The top of the minaret is always the highest point in mosques that have one, and often the highest point in the immediate area.
The first mosques had no minarets, and even nowadays the most conservative Islamic movements, like Wahhabis, avoid building minarets, seeing them as ostentatious and unnecessary.
The first minaret was constructed in 665 in Basra during the reign of the Umayyad caliph Muawiyah I. Muawiyah encouraged the construction of minarets, as they were supposed to bring mosques on par with Christian churches with their bell towers.
Consequently, mosque architects borrowed the shape of the bell tower for their minarets, which were used for essentially the same purpose &mdash; calling the faithful to prayer.
Domes have been a hallmark of Islamic architecture since the 7th century.
As time progressed, the sizes of mosque domes grew, from occupying only a small part of the roof near the mihrab to encompassing all of the roof above the prayer hall.
Although domes normally took on the shape of a hemisphere, the Mughals in India popularized onion-shaped domes in South Asia and Persia.
The prayer hall, also known as the musalla, has no furniture; chairs and pews are absent from the prayer hall.
Prayer halls contain no images of people, animals, and spiritual figures although they may be decorated with Arabic calligraphy and verses from the Qur'an on the walls.
Usually opposite the entrance to the prayer hall is the qibla wall, which is the visually emphasized area inside the prayer hall.
The qibla wall is normally set perpendicular to a line leading to Mecca.
Congregants pray in rows parallel to the qibla wall and thus arrange themselves so they face Mecca.
In the qibla wall, usually at its center, is the mihrab, a niche or depression indicating the qibla wall.
Usually the mihrab is not occupied by furniture either.
Sometimes, especially during Friday prayers, a raised minbar or pulpit is located to the side of the mihrab for a khatib or some other speaker to offer a sermon (khutbah).
The mihrab serves as the location where the imam leads the five daily prayers on a regular basis.
Mosques often have ablution fountains or other facilities for washing in their entryways or courtyards.
However, worshippers at much smaller mosques often have to use restrooms to perform their ablutions.
In traditional mosques, this function is often elaborated into a freestanding building in the center of a courtyard.
Modern mosques may have a variety of amenities available to their congregants and the community, such as health clinics, libraries and gymnasiums.
The religious architecture of Christian churches in the Middle Ages featured the Latin cross plan, which takes the Roman Basilica as its primary model with subsequent developments.
It consists of a nave, transepts, and the altar stands at the east end (see Cathedral diagram).
Also, cathedrals influenced or commissioned by Justinian employed the Byzantine style of domes and a Greek cross (resembling a plus sign), centering attention on the altar at the center of the church.
The Church of the Intercession on the Nerl is an excellent example of Russian orthodox architecture in the Middle Ages.
The Urnes stave church (Urnes stavkyrkje) in Norway is a superb example of a medieval stave church.
Gothic architecture was particularly associated with cathedrals and other churches, which flourished in Europe during the high and late medieval period.
Beginning in 12th century France, it was known as "the French Style" during the period.
The style originated at the abbey church of Saint-Denis in Saint-Denis, near Paris.
Other notable gothic religious structures include Notre Dame de Paris, the Cathedral of Our Lady of Amiens, and the Chartres Cathedral.
The Renaissance brought a return of classical influence and a new emphasis on rational clarity.
Renaissance architecture represents a conscious revival of Roman Architecture with its symmetry, mathematical proportions, and geometric order.
Filippo Brunelleschi's plan for the Santa Maria del Fiore as the dome of the Florence Cathedral in 1418 was one of the first important religious architectural designs of the Italian renaissance.
Evolving from the renaissance style, the baroque style was most notably experienced in religious art and architecture.
Most architectural historians regard Michelangelo's design of St. Peter's Basilica in Rome as a precursor to the Baroque style.
Baroque style can be recognized by broader interior spaces (replacing long narrow naves), more playful attention to light and shadow, extensive ornamentation, large frescoes, focus on interior art, and frequently, a dramatic central exterior projection.
The most important early example of the baroque period was the Santa Susanna by Carlo Maderno.
Saint Paul's Cathedral in London by Christopher Wren is regarded as the prime example of the rather late influence of the Baroque style in England.
Temples of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints offer a unique look at design as it has changed from the simple church like structure of the Kirtland Temple built in the 1830s, to the castellated Gothic styles of the early Utah temples, to the dozens of mass-produced modern temples built today.
Early temples, and some modern temples, have a priesthood assembly room with two sets of pulpits at each end of the room, with chairs or benches that can be altered to face either way.
Most, but not all temples have the recognizable statue of the Angel Moroni atop a spire.
The Nauvoo Temple and the Salt Lake Temple are adorned with symbolic stonework, representing various aspects of the faith.
Modern architecture spans several styles with similar characteristics resulting in simplification of form and the elimination of ornament.
The most influential modernist architects in the early to mid 20th century include Rudolf Schwarz, Dominikus Boehm, and Auguste Perret.
While secular structures clearly had the greater influence on the development of modern architecture, several excellent examples of modern architecture can be found in religious buildings of the 20th century.
For example, Unity Temple in Chicago is a Unitarian Universalist congregation designed by Frank Lloyd Wright.
The United States Air Force Academy Cadet Chapel, started in 1954 and completed in 1962, was designed by Walter Netsch and is an excellent example of modern religious architecture.
It has been described as a "phalanx of fighters" turned on their tails and pointing heavenward.
In 1967, Architect Pietro Belluschi designed the strikingly modern Cathedral of St. Mary of the Assumption (San Francisco), the first Catholic cathedral in the United States intended to conform to Vatican II.
Post-modern architecture may be described by unapologetically diverse aesthetics where styles collide, form exists for its own sake, and new ways of viewing familiar styles and space abound.
The Temple at Independence, Missouri was conceived by Japanese architect Gyo Obata after the concept of the chambered nautilus.
The Catholic Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels (Los Angeles) was designed in 1998 by Jose Rafael Moneo in a post-modern style.
The structure evokes the area's Hispanic heritage through the use of adobe coloring while combining stark modern form with some traditional elements.
The Basilica of Our Lady of Licheń on the other hand is a much more traditional edifice.
Designed by Barbara Bielecka and built between 1994 and 2004, its form includes references to a number of Polish structures.
The columns possess a slenderness and delicacy inspired by those of the Renaissance court of Wawel Castle in Kraków, while the huge 420-foot spire that will be erected next to the basilica bears more than an accidental resemblance to the Baroque spire that adorns the Jasna Gora monastery of Czestochowa, home of the Black Madonna.
Shaker communities were semiotically architectured upon the crux of the compass rose.
Daniel A. Helminiak (born November 20, 1942 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) is an American Catholic priest, theologian and author.
He is a professor in the Department of Humanistic and Transpersonal Psychology at the University of West Georgia, near Atlanta.
Helminiak was born and raised in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in a Polish-American Roman Catholic community on the city's South Side.
He frequently refers to this experience in his popular writings on spirituality and community.
He attended parochial grade and high schools and at age seventeen entered seminary to study for the priesthood at Our Lady of the Lake Seminary, Syracuse, Indiana, and St. Vincent Seminary, Latrobe, Pennsylvania, where he was awarded a Bachelor's degree in philosophy (1964).
He completed graduate studies at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome, earning the degree of Bachelor of Sacred Theology (1966) and a Licentiate in Sacred Theology (1968), and was ordained there at the cathedral of Rome, St. John Lateran Basilica (1967).
Helmimiak served as an Associate Pastor of SS.
Simon and Jude Church in Scott Township (Pittsburgh) for four years.
On weekends throughout the 23 subsequent years, Helminiak ministered in local parishes in Baltimore, Boston, San Antonio and Austin.
He came out as gay in 1976, and served in those areas and nationally as a chaplain to DignityUSA, the LGBT Catholic support network.
In 1995, Helminiak submitted to the Vatican a formal resignation from active ministry, to which, as of 2015, the Vatican has not responded.
He subsequently pursued an educational ministry, serving as junior faculty-member at St. Mary's Seminary and University, Baltimore, Maryland from 1972-1973.
He then completed a PhD in systematic theology in the Joint Doctoral Program of Boston College and Andover Newton Theological School (1979), served as Assistant Professor of Systematic Theology and Spirituality at Oblate School of Theology in San Antonio (1981–1985), completed an MA in personality theory at Boston University (1983) with a thesis that became Part I of his book Spiritual Development, and earned a second PhD in Human Development at The University of Texas at Austin (1994).
In 1995, Helminiak accepted a teaching position at the University of West Georgia (then, West Georgia College), where he has remained except for advanced training in counseling at Pittsburgh Pastoral Institute.
Helminiak is certified as a Fellow of the American Association of Pastoral Counselors, was elected Fellow to the American Psychological Association, and is licensed as a Professional Counselor (LPC) in the state of Georgia.
At the university of West Georgia, from 1995 to 1997 and 2000 to the present, he regularly teaches Human Sexuality, Statistics for the Social Sciences, Animal Mind, and Foundations of Neuroscience.
On the graduate level he has taught courses—such as Ethics, Epistemology, Mysticism, Personal Growth, and "God" in the Brain—related to the psychology of spirituality, which is his specialization and the focus of his research, lecturing, and writing.
He is most widely known for his international best-seller, What the Bible Really Says about Homosexuality.
From 1975 to 1978 at Boston College, Helminiak served as teaching assistant to Bernard Lonergan, S.J.
(1904–1984), the philosopher, theologian, economist, and methodologist whom Newsweek (April 20, 1970, p.&nbsp;75) styled the Thomas Aquinas of the 20th century.
Lonergan is reputed to have integrated classical philosophy with contemporary science and, in the process, to have resolved the Kantian problem of knowing any "thing in itself."
Building on the thought of giants of the Western Tradition—such as Aristotle, Augustine, Aquinas, Kant, Hegel, Einstein, Hilbert, Gödel, Heisenberg—Lonergan portrays the human mind as a self-transcending, normatively structured, self-correcting dynamism geared to the universe of "being," all that there is to be known and loved.
Lonergan refers to this dimension of the mind as intentional consciousness and frequently also as the human spirit.
Taking Lonergan seriously, Helminiak used his analysis of consciousness or human spirit to develop a theory of spirituality that centers in humanity and only subsequently and optionally, although naturally, opens onto questions of God and human relationship and possible union with God.
This humanistic emphasis is the uniqueness of Helminiak's psychology of spirituality, which claims to depict the spiritual core that runs through all religions and cultures.
Helminiak's two-volume technical study, The Human Core of Spirituality and Religion and the Human Sciences, provides a detailed elaboration of this theory; and his more recent Brain, Consciousness, and God engages the findings of neuroscience and current discussion about human consciousness and religious experience to elaborate and support this theory.
It offers a coherent Western alternative to prevalent understandings of spirituality based on Eastern philosophy.
Whereas Jewish, Christian, and Muslim theologies see God most fundamentally as Creator and, perforce, see all else—including human consciousness or spirit—as created and, therefore, not divine, Eastern thought tends to obscure the distinction between the spiritual and the divine and holds that, "deep down inside" and purified of all earthly attachment, humanity really is divinity.
Such is the intent of the Hindu axiom, "Atman is Brahman," and the Vedic lesson, "That thou art."
Western thinking insists that, although God is spiritual, all that is spiritual is not thereby God.
Creator and creature, the Uncreated and the created, are defined by relationship to each other.
By sheer dint of logic, the created cannot be or become the Uncreated; they cannot be one and the same.
Moreover, the Uncreated cannot come in parts or degrees—for example, a supposed "spark of divinity" or a human status of "somewhat" or "still imperfectly" divine.
Genesis 1:27 does allow that God created humankind in the divine "image and likeness," that is, in some way God-like: spiritual.
Christianity elaborates this theme to explain the possibility of human divinization: through the saving work of Jesus Christ and the gift of the Holy Spirit poured into human hearts, humankind can actually achieve the furthest possible fulfillment of the human spirit and come to share in certain qualities that are proper to God alone, for example, understanding of everything about everything, and universal love; but humankind cannot share in God's eternal, uncreated being.
Thus, both East and West conceive of human union with God but explain it in significantly different ways.
These matters are subtle and difficult, and the technically precise distinctions might not always have immediate practical consequences.
That is to say, the religions of the East and the West have served and, for the most part, continue to serve their adherents well.
However, the unavoidable pluralism of twenty-first-century globalization demands that at some level a spiritual consensus be forged.
This is the theme of Helminiak's Spirituality for Our Global Community.
This enterprise calls for the precision of a science.
Then the above-named distinctions become crucial.
Only an epistemology or philosophy of science adequate to spiritual reality could manage the subtleties.
Many believe that Lonergan has finally provided the requisite epistemology, and Helminiak uses it both to differentiate the human and the divine within spirituality and to interrelate them.
That is, he interrelates psychology, spirituality, and theology and thus presents a logically coherent and comprehensive understanding of spirituality.
It requires no appeal to paradox as, for example, Ken Wilber adamantly does in his "perennial philosophy" and "Integral Studies."
Helminiak's elaboration of the human core of spirituality becomes the lynchpin of the overall interdisciplinary, scientific project.
Influenced by Eastern thought, constrained by personal religious beliefs, overly deferential to popular piety in the West, and thus hard pressed to conceive of spirituality apart from God or some such metaphysical principle—in psychological circles, for example, it is cryptically called "the Sacred"—Western theologians and secular psychologists alike criticize Helminiak's theory.
In contrast and in line with Lonergan's groundbreaking work, Helminiak appeals to the long-standing Christian axiom, "Grace builds on nature," and sees his psychology of spirituality, without prejudice to theology or religion, as an elaboration of the nature on which grace builds.
This tack represents another step in the explanatory advance of science from physics to chemistry, to biology, to psychology, and now to spiritualogy.
(Spiritualogy is a neologism that Helminiak proposes to name the study of lived spirituality.)
This tack represents the possibility of integrating contemporary science and traditional theology to actually explain spiritual sensitivity, practices, and experiences.
Helminiak's Meditation without Myth and The Transcended Christian are popularized and practical introductions to these matters.
Brain, Consciousness, and God provides the makings of a technical explanation.
In addition to the demands of his scientific mind and his long-standing commitment to "the things of God"—he remains a theist believer and a practicing Catholic—a number of life experiences stoked Helminiak's thinking about spirituality from a non-theological perspective: his expertise in both theology and psychology, which allowed him to recognize and resolve the differences and interrelationship between these two fields; his moving in secular social-scientific circles, no longer in professional religious ones; his pained concern for lesbian and gay people and others rejected by religion, who might deaden the sensitivity of their souls in the wake of their own rejection of religion and God; his employment at a state university, which requires non-sectarian scholarship; and post-9/11, the ever more urgent need to structure a harmonious global community, independent yet respectful of diverse religions and cultures.
These concerns run through Helminiak's teaching, lecturing, and writing and have led to a string of publications.
In addition to dozens of peer-reviewed papers and scores of other technical and popular articles, book reviews, and essays, Helminiak has published the following books:
Religion in Italy is characterised by the predominance of Christianity, especially the Catholic Church, and an increasing diversity of religious practices, beliefs and denominations.
The country's Catholic patron saints are Francis of Assisi and Catherine of Siena.
According to the 2012 Global Religious Landscape survey by the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life (an American think tank), 83.3% of Italy's residents are Christians, 12.4% are irreligious, atheist or agnostic, 3.7% are Muslims and the remaining 0.6% adhere to other religions.
According to a 2006 survey by Eurispes (an Italian research centre), Catholics made up 87.8% of the population, with 36.8% describing themselves as observants.
According to the same poll in 2010, those percentages fell to 76.5% and 24.4%, respectively.
Other sources give different accounts of Italy's Islamic population, usually around 2%.
According to the 2005 Eurobarometer poll (conducted on behalf of the European Commission), 74% of Italians "believe there is a God", 16% "believe there is some sort of spirit or life force" and 6% "do not believe there is any sort of spirit, God, or life force".
Italy is home to the headquarters of the 1.2-billion strong Catholic Church (see Holy See and Vatican City), whose world leader, the Pope, is the Bishop of Rome, hence the special relationship between Italians and the Church—and the latter's entanglement with Italian politics (see Lateran Treaty).
The current Pope is Francis, born Jorge Mario Bergoglio, who, before his election in 2013, had been Archbishop of Buenos Aires since 1998.
Francis is the third non-Italian Pope in a row, after John Paul II (1978–2005) and Benedict XVI (2005–2013).
Most of the leading Catholic religious orders, including the Jesuits, the Salesians, the Franciscans, the Capuchin Franciscans, the Benedectines, the Dominicans, the Divine Word Missionaries, the Redemptorists, the Conventual Franciscans and the Oblates of Mary Immaculate, have their headquarters in Rome too.
The Italian territory is divided in 225 Catholic dioceses (whose bishops have been organised, since 1952, in the politically influential Italian Episcopal Conference, CEI) and, according to Church statistics, 96% of the country's population is baptised.
Ecclesial life is vibrant and, despite secularization, some of the most active movements and associations are Catholic, including organisations as diverse as Catholic Action (AC), the Italian Catholic Association of Guides and Scouts (AGESCI), Communion and Liberation (CL), Neocatechumenal Way, the Focolare Movement, the Christian Associations of Italian Workers (ACLI), the Community of Sant'Egidio, etc., most of which have frequently supplied Italian politics with their members.
Italy's current President, Sergio Mattarella, and Prime Minister, Matteo Renzi, have been AC and AGESCI leaders, respectively, while the current President of the CEI, Cardinal Angelo Bagnasco, has been a long-time AGESCI assistant.
Other than that the Latin-rite Catholic Church, Italy has two more native churches: the Italo-Albanian Catholic Church, one of the twenty-two Eastern Catholic Churches in communion with the Pope, and the Waldensian Evangelical Church, a Christian movement originated from Lyon in the late 12th century and turned Calvinist denomination since the Protestant Reformation (see also: Waldensians).
The two churches include the majority of the population in Piana degli Albanesi, Sicily and Lungro, Calabria, and the so-called "Waldensian Valleys" (Val Pellice, Val Chisone and Valle Germanasca) of eastern Piedmont, respectively.
Most mainline Protestants, including the Waldensians, the Methodists, the mostly German-speaking Lutherans, the Baptists and minor Calvinist and Presbyterian communities, are affiliated to the Federation of Evangelical Churches in Italy, along with the Italian section of The Salvation Army and some minor Evangelical and Pentecostal denominations.
Italy is home to around 45,000 Jews, who are one of the most ancient Jewish communities in the world.
The Jewish presence dates to the pre-Christian Roman period and has continued, despite periods of extreme persecution and expulsions from parts of the country from time to time, until the present.
Native Italian Jews, who form the core of the community in Rome, practice the Italian rite, but there are also Ashkenazi Jews, who have settled in the North, especially in the lands of the former Republic of Venice (Veneto, Friuli-Venezia Giulia and eastern Lombardy) and Piedmont, since the late Middle Ages, and Sephardi Jews, who have established themselves mostly in Livorno, Florence, Venice and several cities of Emilia, after their expulsion from the Kingdom of Naples.
The Jewish community of Milan, notably including a substantial number of Mizrahi Jews originating from the Middle East, is the most international in character and composition.
Immigration has brought to Italy many religious minorities, especially Muslims and Orthodox Christians.
Massimo Introvigne, founder and director of CESNUR (an Italian think tank devoted to religious studies) and main author of L'enciclopedia delle religioni in Italia, predicts that, thanks to continued immigration from Eastern Europe, Orthodox Christians could soon become the second largest religious group, overtaking Muslims.
Also Protestantism, especially in its evangelical and Pentecostal forms, is on the rise: Introvigne recalls how Giorgio Bouchard, a Waldensian pastor, told him that "when he was born, the typical Italian Protestant was a man, lived in Piedmont, had a last name like Bouchard and was a Waldensian", while "today, the typical Italian Protestant believer is a woman, lives in Campania or Sicily, is named Esposito and is a Pentecostal."
Not surprisingly the Assemblies of God in Italy have the majority of their communities in the South.
Among the fastest-growing new religious denominations in Italy a special place is held by the Jehovah's Witnesses, who count around 250,000 members and an almost equal number of symphatisers regularly attending its meetings.
According to Caritas Italiana (the CEI's charitable arm), in 2010 the immigrant population was 53.9% Christian, 32.9% Muslim, 2.6% Hindu and 1.9% Buddhist.
According to the same source, in 2012 Italy was home to 850 "African Neo-Pentecostal churches", 750 foreign-language Catholic communities, 655 mosques or other Islamic houses of worship, 355 Orthodox parishes, 126 Buddhist temples, 37 Sikh ones and 2 Hindu ones.
The Mosque of Rome is one of the largest outside Muslim world.
Religious practice, especially church attendance, is still high in Italy, when compared to the average European country.
The Italian National Institute of Statistics (ISTAT) found in 2010 that 32.0% of the population went to church, mosque, synagogue or another house of worship on a weekly basis.
The share of practising believers was higher in Southern (39.5%) and Insular Italy (36.9%) than the North-West (30.4%), the North-East (28.6%) and the Centre (25.4%).
In the North-East religious practice was particularly high in Trentino (36.6%) and Veneto (35.1%), once dubbed "white Veneto" because of Christian Democracy's strength there (white being the party's official colour), in the Centre in Marche (35.5%), in the South in Campania (43.4%), Apulia (40.3%), Sicily (40.2%), Molise (37.8%) and Calabria (35.2%), while being particularly low in Aosta Valley (21.7%), Liguria (22.9%) and the so-called "red regions" (long-time strongholds of the left-wing/centre-left, from the Italian Communist Party to the current Democratic Party), especially Tuscany (21.5%) and Emilia-Romagna (21.7%).
The Constitution of Italy recognises the Catholic Church and the state as "independent and sovereign, each within its own sphere" (article 7), in respect of the principle of separation of church and state.
In particular, the Lateran Treaty of 1929, which gave a special status to the Church, is recognised and modifications "accepted by both parties" to such treaty are allowed without the need of constitutional amendments.
In fact, the treaty was later modified by a new agreement between the state and the Church in 1984.
Freedom of religion is also recognised, with "all religious denominations" having "the right of self-organisation according to their own statutes, provided these do not conflict with Italian law"; "[t]heir relations with the state are regulated by law, based on agreements with their respective representatives" (article 8).
As of 2015, the Italian government has signed thirteen such agreements and eleven have been approved by the Italian Parliament and signed into law, including those with the following denominations: Both Waldensians and Jews have played an important role in Italian politics.
While there have been many Catholic-inspired parties, from the aforementioned Christian Democracy to Forza Italia, Waldensians have been usually active in "secular" parties.
More recently, a group of Pentecostals set up the Extended Christian Pact party.
This is a scheme of the religious composition of Italian population (58,751,711 – 2006, estimated):
Religious architecture in Novi Sad is very diverse.
Majority of the believers in Novi Sad are from Serbian Orthodox Church, while others are from Roman Catholic Church, many Protestant churches, and Jewish community.
Stari Grad is the place with the majority of churches and temples, and they are all built in the 18th and 19th century.
The oldest religious building in the city was Orthodox church dedicated to Saint John.
This church was built in 1700, but was burned in the 1848–49 revolution.
It was rebuilt in 1853, but was razed in 1921.
The main Orthodox church in the City is The Orthodox Cathedral of Saint George (Saborna Crkva svetog Đorđa), built in 1742, it is next to the Bishop’s Palace, the seat of the Serbian Orthodox Eparchy of Bačka.
In city centre there are also the Church of Holy Dormition (Uspenska crkva), built in 1736, Almaš Church (Almaška crkva) in Almaški Kraj, built in 1797 and Russian Orthodox Church of St. Nicholas (Nikolajevska crkva), built in 1730.
There is also Church of Presentation (Vavedenjska crkva) in Petrovaradin, as well as an Orthodox church in Sremska Kamenica, built in 1737–1758.
In the 1990s, at end of the state socialist period in Serbia, numerous new Serbian Orthodox churches were built in Novi Sad's neighbourhoods: in Klisa, Telep, Novo Naselje, Detelinara, Petrovaradin, Paragovo, and Veternik.
These new churches are all built in Neo-Byzantine architecture, which is more Balkanic architecture and very different from the older Orthodox churches in the city, which are of a more Central Europe-type architecture.
Kovilj Monastery is the only Orthodox monastery in the municipal area of Novi Sad.
It is located near the village of Kovilj.
It was reconstructed in 1705–07 and according to the legend, the monastery was founded by the first Serb archbishop Saint Sava in the 13th century.
<gallery> Image:Almaska crkva.JPG|Almaš Church Image:Nikolajevska crkva.JPG|Church of St. Nicholas (Nikolajevska crkva) Image:Serbia-0304 - The Dormition of the Virgin Mary Church.jpg|Church of Holy Dormition (Uspenska crkva) Image:Telep02.jpg|New Orthodox church in Telep, built in Neo-Byzantine architecture Image:Novo naselje crkva.JPG|New Orthodox church in Novo Naselje (under construction) Image:Slana bara crkva brvnara.jpg|Wooden Orthodox church in Slana Bara Image:Slana bara orthodox church.JPG|Orthodox church in Slana Bara Image:Petrovaradin, église Saint-Paul Apôtre.jpg|Orthodox church in Petrovaradin Image:SremskaKamenica 03.j jpg|Orthodox church in Sremska Kamenica Image:Monastère de Kovilj.jpg|Kovilj monastery </gallery> Although Roman Catholic churches and worshippers are a minority in the city, for historical reasons, The Name of Mary Church (Crkva imena Marijinog) dominates city centre and it is one of the most recognised structures in Novi Sad.
Built in Gothic Revival architecture, in 1895 on the site of an older church, which was burnt down, it is the tallest temple in the Bačka region.
There are also two more Roman Catholic churches in the city, one in Telep and one in Grbavica (in Futoška street).
There are also three Catholic churches in Petrovaradin and one in Sremska Kamenica (built in 1746), as well as a Franciscan monastery in Petrovaradin (1701–1714).
Tekije Church in Petrovaradin, built in 1881, is used by all 3 Christian communities in the city: Orthodox, Protestant, and Catholic.
There was also one Armenian church dedicated to St. Gregory the Illuminator, which was built in 1746, destroyed during bombardment in 1849, and then rebuild in 1872 with funds of Serbian philanthrope Marija Trandafil.
This church was finally demolished in 1963 to make way for new boulevard.
<gallery> Image:Novi Sad crkva.JPG|The Name of Mary Catholic Church Image:Saint George church in Petrovaradin.JPG|Saint George church in Petrovaradin Image:Telep,_Catholic_Church.j jpg|Saint Elizabeth Catholic Church in Telep Image:Petrovaradin,_The_Our_Lady_of_Snow_ecumenic_Church.j jpg|The Our Lady of Snow ecumenic Church in Petrovaradin </gallery> Rotkvarija neighborhood is home to the Slovak evangelical church, built in 1886, conducting services predominantly in Slovak language (occasionally in Serbian and German) and two Reformist churches, on in city Center, built in 1865, and another one in Telep, both having services performed in Hungarian language.
There are also many smaller temples of Baptist, Methodist, Adventist, Pentecostal and other Protestant communities.
In most Protestant churches in Novi Sad, services are performed in Serbian language.
<gallery> Image:Slovenský Evanielický a.v.
kostól.jpg|Slovak Evangelical Lutheran Church in Kisač Image:Novi_Sad,_Christian_Baptist_Church.j jpg|Adventist prayer house Image:Gimnazija zivorad jankovic.jpg|Adventist gymnasium "Živorad Janković" Image:Novi_Sad,_Evangelical_Methodist_Church.j jpg|Prayer House of Nazarene Christian Community Image:Novi_Sad,_Jehovah's_Witnesses_prayer_hall.j jpg|Jehovah's Witnesses prayer hall Image:Novi_Sad,_Protestant_Evangelic_Church.j jpg|Religious building of Protestant Christian Community Image:Novi_Sad,_Spiritual_Church_of_Christ.j jpg|Spiritual Church of Christ Image:Slovacka crkva.JPG|Evangelistic (Slovak) church Image:Telep,_Calvinist_church.j jpg|The Calvinist (Hungarian) church in Telep </gallery> Greek Catholic church, built in 1822 and used by Rusyn ethnic community, is situated in Stari Grad.
<gallery> Image:Rusinska crkva.JPG|Uniate (Rusyn) church </gallery> The Novi Sad Synagogue was built in 1905 in Art Nouveau architecture.
Today, the temple is not used for religious ceremonies, but it is one of the most important cultural institutions in the city.
There is also a mosque located in Futoška street.
<gallery> Image:Synagogue de Novi Sad.jpg|Synagogue Image:Mesdzid islamske zajednice ns.jpg|Masjid of Islamic Religious Community </gallery> jpg|The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) </gallery>
A neologism ( ; from Greek νέο- néo-, "new" and λόγος lógos, "speech, utterance") is the name for a relatively new or isolated term, word, or phrase that may be in the process of entering common use, but that has not yet been accepted into mainstream language.
Neologisms are often directly attributable to a specific person, publication, period, or event.
Neolexia ("new word", or the act of creating a new word) is a synonym.
The term neologism is first attested in English in 1772, borrowed from French néologisme (1734).
A proponent of a new word or doctrine may be called a neologist.
Neologists might study cultural and ethnic vernacular.
A neologism may also be a new usage of an existing word, sometimes called a semantic extension.
This is distinct from a person's idiolect, one's unique patterns of vocabulary, grammar, and pronunciation.
In psychiatry, the term neologism is used to describe the use of words that have meaning only to the person who uses them, independent of their common meaning.
This tendency is considered normal in children, but in adults it can be a symptom of psychopathy or a thought disorder (indicative of a psychotic mental illness, such as schizophrenia).
People with autism also may create neologisms.
Additionally, use of neologisms may be related to aphasia acquired after brain damage resulting from a stroke or head injury.
In theology, a neologism is a relatively new doctrine (for example, Transcendentalism).
In this sense, a neologist is one who proposes either a new doctrine or a new interpretation of source material such as religious texts.
Neologisms may come from popular literature in different forms.
Sometimes, they are simply taken from a word used in the narrative of a book; a few representative examples are "grok" (to achieve complete intuitive understanding), from Stranger in a Strange Land by Robert A. Heinlein; "McJob," from Generation X: Tales for an Accelerated Culture by Douglas Coupland; "cyberspace," from Neuromancer by William Gibson; and "nymphet" from Lolita by Vladimir Nabokov.
Other times the title of a book becomes the neologism, for instance, Catch-22 (from the title of Joseph Heller's novel).
Alternatively, the author's name may become the neologism, although the term is sometimes based on only one work of that author.
This includes such words as "Orwellian" (from George Orwell, referring to his novel Nineteen Eighty-Four), "Kafkaesque" (from Franz Kafka, author and philosopher most renowned for The Metamorphosis) and "Ballardesque" or "Ballardian" (from J. G. Ballard, author of Crash).
The word "sadistic" is derived from the cruel sexual practices Marquis de Sade described in his novels.
Kurt Vonnegut's Cat's Cradle was the container of the Bokononism family of nonce words.
Another category is words derived from famous characters in literature, such as quixotic (referring to the titular character in Don Quixote de la Mancha by Cervantes), a scrooge (from the main character in Dickens's A Christmas Carol), or a pollyanna (from Eleanor H. Porter's book of the same name).
James Joyce's Finnegans Wake, composed in a uniquely complex linguistic style, coined the words monomyth and quark.
Neologisms have been noted as instrumental in science fiction for their ability to defamiliarize the reader and create new worlds.
William Gibson makes important use of neologism in his writing.
Divine presence, presence of God, Inner God, or simply presence is a concept in religion, spirituality, and theology that deals with the omnipotent ability of a god or gods to be "present" with human beings.
Most gods are commonly understood to be capable of interacting with the natural world, and more important, with human beings, such that they would be able to hold some influence with any human being.
According to some types of monotheism, God is omnipresent and telepathic&mdash; can read, see, interpret, evaluate, and understand all human thoughts and concepts, and can project his will in various ways.
Such ways are commonly said to be quite subtle (cf.
divine illumination), but religious texts typically deal with important occurrences wherein God deals directly with particular beings.
There are three distinct but related concepts of divine presence: In theological terms, a god's presence in nature is irrelevant next to his or her presence among humanity.
Such presence could be in the mind, but an unseen being that influences human perception would be perceived by human beings as an external, environmental, or natural entity.
The concept is shared by many religious traditions, is found in a number of independently derived conceptualizations, and each of these has culturally distinct terminology.
Some of the various relevant concepts and terms are: A related concept is the ability of Jesus to be present in human life&mdash;a Trinitarian concept that may be specifically indicated or described by various terms: Considering the notion or belief of Jesus' presence within the Christological area of study, one can articulate an account of presence in nine themes and so throw light on Christ "in himself" (in se) and Christ "for us" (pro nobis), thus recalling the strikingly new modes of divine presence to humanity and the world that the missions of the Son of God and the Holy Spirit brought, according to the Christian faith.
As Word/Wisdom/Son of God, Christ is eternally and personally related to the Father in the Spirit.
To adapt a central statement from Nicaea I, "there never was a moment when God was not present to/in him" (cf.
DzH 126; Col. 1:19; 2 Cor.
5:19) This divine "presence to", which constitutes the triune God's life in communion, is mirrored in Christ's earthly existence — from the trinitarian face of his virginal conception and baptism right through to his "being exalted at the right hand" of God the Father and jointly "pouring out" the Holy Spirit on the world (Acts 2:33).
The trinitarian presence takes into account the ultimate reality of Christ's eternal and temporal existence.
His addressing God as "Abba" reflects that "being related to" which isd his eternal life-in-communion transposed into time.
This is a "knowing" which denotes a mutual existence-in-the-other's presence: "no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son" (Matt.
There is in jesus a mystical consciousness of and reaction to God's immediate and direct presence.
The Q-text just quoted ends by saying, "no one knows the father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him".
One then has to examine the notion of presence which illuminates not only Christ's intratrinitarian being-in-relationship but also his revealing and saving "work" for human beings.
Also to be considered is how serviceable is "presence", once one moves from a christological consideration of Jesus "in himself (in se) to a soteriological consideration of his being "for us" (pro nobis).
Soteriology might be described as the multiform ways in which Christ's presence (or God's unique, foundational presence in/to Christ) mediated and mediates itself to human beings and their world, so as to communicate revelation and redemption.
On the basis of some spatio-temporal nearness, a vital, personal "presence to" can develop.
A bodily presence allows the interpersonal relationship with Christ to emerge and grow as the revealing/saving presence pro nobis.
List of different forms of racing.
Running is defined in sporting terms as a gait in which at some point all feet are off the ground at the same time.
This is in contrast to walking, where one foot is always in contact with the ground.
The term running can refer to any of a variety of speeds ranging from jogging to sprinting.
Competitive running grew out of religious festivals in various areas.
The Tailteann Games, an Irish sporting festival, dates back to 1829 BCE, and is one of the earliest records of competitive running.
The origins of the Olympics are shrouded in myth, though the first recorded game took place in 776 BCE.
Orienteering sports combine navigation with a specific method of travel.
Some races involve multiple modes of transport:
This list of Hindu Punjabi festivals summarizes festivals observed in Punjab.
The festivals of Maghi and Vaisakhi are determined by the solar aspect of the Punjabi calendar.
The rest are based on the lunar months of the Punjabi calendar.
Punjabi Hindus follow the Punjabi calendar to observe religious festivals.
In addition to the above, Punjabi Hindus observe other Punjabi festivals such as, Basant Festival of Kites, Teej and Gugga.
jpg|Statue of Lord Shiva / Mahadev at Nageshwar temple File:Durga Puja DS.jpg|Durga Puja File:Baby Krishna Sleeping Beauty.jpg|Baby Krishna File:Diya necklace Dipavali Diwali November 2013.j jpg|Diya necklace Diwali File:Sanjhi mata ji.jpg|Sanjhi Mata Ji File:Ravana fizzles.jpg|Effigy of Ravana </gallery>
The ciaramedda or ciaramèddha (Sicilian) is a type of zampogna with equal length double chanters.
Other terms for this instrument include "zampogna a paru" and "terzalora" or simply "cornamuse."
The ciaramedda is native to the rural areas of Sicily and Calabria, particularly in the provinces of Messina and Reggio Calabria, though it can also be found in the provinces of Catania, Agrigento, Enna, Siracusa and as far north as Catanzaro.
The ciaramedda became less prominent in Sicilian culture with the decline of European pastoral culture, however it survives in the context of religious festivals, particularly during Christmas.
In Reggio Calabria the instrument still enjoys secular use and is one of the principal instruments used in communal dances, accompanied by a tambourine to play the tarantella.
In the Messinese dialect the single blade cane reed mounted in the chanters and drones is called a "zammara."
In the province of Catania the reed is called a "zampogna."
The Inno Nazionale is the national anthem of the Republic of San Marino.
It was written by Federico Consolo, an Italian violinist and composer, and replaced Giubilanti d'amore fraterno as the national anthem in 1894.
This national anthem is one of a few without official lyrics (along with Spain, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Kosovo), and is therefore called simply Inno Nazionale ( ).
Although it is little known and scarcely heard within the wider European Community, the Inno Nazionale is regularly played in the streets of San Marino City by the musicians of the Military Ensemble during national and religious festivals.
It has an area of 20.47 square kilometers and its population in 2000 was 16,514 inhabitants.
Located 35 miles from downtown, the Ingleses Beach has the largest resident population.
Large investments were made in recent years, giving the resort of tourism infrastructure made up of hotels, guesthouses, bars and restaurants which allows you to receive tourists in any season.
Much of the local population is from other cities and states, and the Azores culture today is not so apparent as in other localities of the island.
Throughout the year, various religious festivals are held.
The main activities are related to trade, the construction industry and especially to tourism.
Fishing, which for many years was the main livelihood of the population, is still an industry throughout the year.
Edward Ben Avram (born 1941) is an artist who was born in Bombay, India and immigrated to Israel as a teenager.
He graduated from the Bezalel Academy of Art and Design in 1965 and continues to make his home in Jerusalem.
Most of Avram’s oil paintings and watercolors portray Israeli cities, religious festivals, and Bible stories.
He paints in creamy sensual tones incorporating symbols such as doves, a menorah, and Shabbat candles.
The auction record for a painting by Ben Avram is $6,875.
This record was set by The Twelve Tribes, a 47.24 by 31.5&nbsp;inch oil painting on canvas sold Dec. 28, 2010 at Matsa for Public Auctions-Matsa Gallery (Tel Aviv).
Good Night, Sleep Tight is a major children's poetry anthology collated by Ivan Jones and Mal Lewis Jones.
It contains 366 poems by world famous and lesser known poets, including some of the editors' own poems.
There is one poem for each night of the year.
The book is divided into twelve sections with each month illustrated by a well-known illustrator.
The idea of the book is for busy parents to read their children a poem every night - and to pick out special ones for birthdays, religious festivals and other significant events.
The book is published by Scholastic and Scholastic Inc (USA) and has sold over a hundred thousand copies in hardback.
The book contains many major poems, including "I Met At Eve" by Walter de la Mare, "Will There Really Be a Morning" by Emily Dickinson, "Last Night I Dreamed of Chickens" by Jack Prelutsky, and "Escape at Bedtime" by Robert Louis Stevenson.
The Via Sacra ( ) (Sacred Road) was the main street of ancient Rome, leading from the top of the Capitoline Hill, through some of the most important religious sites of the Forum (where it is the widest street), to the Colosseum.
The road was part of the traditional route of the Roman Triumph that began on the outskirts of the city and proceeded through the Roman Forum.
In the 5th century BC, the road was supported by a substructure to protect it from the rain.
Later it was paved and during the reign of Nero it was lined with colonnades.
The road provided the setting for many deeds and misdeeds of Rome's history, the solemn religious festivals, the magnificent triumphs of victorious generals, and the daily throng assembling in the Basilicas to chat, throw dice, engage in business, or secure justice.
Many prostitutes lined the street as well, looking for potential customers.
Light House Hill is situated in Hampankatta, the heart of Mangalore City in the southern India.
Light House Hill is the location of two famous educational institutions in Mangalore, namely St. Aloysius College and Kasturba Medical College.
The famous religious places here are the St. Aloysius Chapel and the Idgah mosque.
The City Central Library is located close to St Aloysius college.
This library is run by the Mangalore City Corporation.
There are several branches for city central library within Mangalore.
The first lighthouse of Mangalore is located in the heart of the Mangalore city.
This "Light House" was built by Hyder Ali, an erst while ruler of Mysore.
The huge watchtower in the hill served as a base for the British, from where many resident commanders of the British Navy would monitor the movement of travelling ships.
The base of the light house has a library, with a reading room named after Karnad Sadashiv Rao, a renowned freedom fighter.
The Ethiopian Evangelical Church Mekane Yesus (EECMY; also called Mekane Yesus Church) is a Christian denomination in Ethiopia, the third largest Lutheran denomination in the world, after the Church of Sweden and the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania.
With the encouragement of the Lutheran and Presbyterian Missionary Societies in Ethiopia and the Lutheran World Federation, the Evangelical congregations in several parts of the country met on April 23 and 25, 1958 to deliberate on the draft constitution and establish the Ethiopian Evangelical Church Mekane Yesus (EECMY).
From these joint efforts the church was instituted as a national Church on January 21, 1959, taking its name from the first congregation in Addis Ababa, Mekane Yesus ("Place of Jesus").
EECMY has a motto of "Serving the Whole Person" which was developed in the 1970s.
This 'holistic ministry' theme of the Church has helped her to carry out her ministry in evangelism and development work.
One of the important voices of the EECMY and leading theologian of the church was Gudina Tumsa (1929–1979) who was general secretary for several years up until his arrest and murder at the hands of the communist government of Ethiopia in 1979.
It is the second largest Lutheran church in the world, after the Church of Sweden.
The EECMY was founded by Northern European missionaries in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
These missionaries concentrated their work in southern Ethiopia where the Orthodox Christian influence was less profound.
The strategy of the missionaries and evangelists to implant a Protestant church in Ethiopia was one of development.
At a time when Emperor Haile Selassie was looking to modernize and promote progress in the state, foreign and domestic missions were some of the most productive agents.
In fact, Selassie wrote in his autobiography that he only “permitted missions because of their efforts in the field of education and health care”.
It was through development that the evangelical church was able to first establish a presence in the 19th and 20th centuries.
In fact, as more people in power in the Orthodox Church began to question the validity of foreign missions in Ethiopian society, and as the identification of the Orthodox Church and the Amharic language as unifying forces within Ethiopia began to grow, many of the people who held high administrative positions owed their education to the mission schools, and were thus reluctant to pass any legislation against them.
Thus, while many sociological and religious forces weighed against the Evangelical church and its missions in Ethiopia, the fact that it was effective as an agent of development aided its survival through its burgeoning years.
Of course, the Orthodox Church was still favored in the eyes of most as the true Ethiopian religion, as shown in the Imperial Decree on Missions in 1944, which stated that the missions could not engage in religious activities in “Ethiopian Church areas”; however, the decree allowed considerable freedom for missionaries, most of whom were still foreign.
The EECMY church was beginning to gain some legitimacy in the eyes of at least a few, but was still seen as a spawn of foreign, colonial activity.
This was made evident when the Mekane Yesus church became “legally registered” on February 13, 1969, although it had been functioning as an independent entity since 1959.
In assigning an official name to the Lutheran offshoot, semantics became a key point of contention.
The patriarch of the EOC at the time was largely opposed to the word “Ethiopian” being attached to the church’s name, as he claimed it was nothing but an organization, “inspired and led from abroad”.
He was also against it being officially registered as a church, claiming that it was merely an organization.
After much debate however, the name was established as the “Evangelical Church Mekane Yesus in Ethiopia” (ECMY).
It was changed to its current title “Ethiopian Evangelical Church Mekane Yesus (EECMY) in 1978.
The Patriarch’s perspective represents a general sentiment especially present among orthodox followers that the Mekane Yesus church was not truly a native church.
While the Orthodox Church had a long history in Ethiopia and had shaped much of the culture of the center, there were still large pockets of cultures unaffected by the church, especially in the peripheral regions where the EECMY experienced most of its growth, such as the south and the west.
One of the prominent early Ethiopian evangelists, Onesimos Nesib was crucial in this spread.
He was active in his work in the spreading of the gospel to the marginal regions of the country that were both hard to reach and restricted by the government, and he also was the first person to translate the entire Protestant Bible into the language of the Oromo, the largest ethnic group in Ethiopia.
This in itself was a huge step for the EECMY.
Because of Nesib’s work, the ECMY was able to gain a large constituency outside the Orthodox centers, specifically among the Oromo.
The Orthodox Church has always represented the greatest institutional obstacle for the growth of the EECMY, when not actively, then by its mere presence and dominance in the public sphere.
However, the EECMY has seen opposition from Muslims as well, although the EECMY has been constantly attended by suspicion and prejudice by members of the Orthodox Church.
The particularly malicious bent taken towards Evangelical churches during the Derg's socialist revolution of the 1970s, which manifested itself in attacks on EECMY churches by means of arson, arrests, and forced closings, exemplified this place in society.
Additionally, the labels of outsider, colonist, enemy, and stranger were all stigmas with which the EECMY lived in the decades leading up to the fighting.
The persecution of the church was evident before the socialist revolution, and was only augmented during the war.
As a response to this, the church – now left largely to itself by many foreign missionaries who were evacuated for safety’s sake – began to develop a rugged theology responding to its suffering, with phrases such as “God is with us” and “Hitherto the Lord has helped us” emphasized in the church’s conferences of the time.
One of the EECMY pastors who emerged as a political and religious leader in this trying time was Gudina Tumsa, who has been called “the Dietrich Bonhoeffer of Africa” in the years following his martyrdom in 1979.
The Reformed section of the denomination was founded by the United Presbyterian Church in 1869.
Dr. Thomas Lambie a missionary of the United Presbyterian Church begun work in the western part of the country.
During the Italian occupation missionaries were forced to leave, but Bethel Evangelical Church was founded with native believers.
In become an independent Church in 1947.
After World War II BEC experienced rapid growth.
In 1974 it become part of the Ethiopian Evangelical church Mekare Yesus, and now it has more than 1,000 000 members.
Former BEC Presbyteries and Synods retainn their names.
In western Synod of Gambella more than 60% of the population is member of the Bethel Evangelical church.
Gudina Tumsa is in many regards the father of the indigenous theological thought of the EECMY, and especially its Holistic Theology.
In fact, a study of his theology and the theology of Emmanuel Abraham (a colleague, contemporary, and friend) comprises a large portion of the EECMY theology.
Tumsa studied theology in the United States, and because of this gained a relatively broad understanding of mission and the church.
Upon returning to Ethiopia, he “gave his church a decisive push towards independence in theological thought and church practice”, criticizing many aspects of Western Christianity.
Much of his theology is contained in the letters he wrote to church leaders and the general public, as well as in the addresses he gave at various conferences around the world in the 1960s and 1970s.
The main points of his theology center on a holistic hermeneutic that not only encompasses a broad ontology, but which also applies itself both to the life in this world and the next.
His theology can be portrayed as a type of liberation theology, but cannot be categorized strictly in this class; indeed, it contains a uniquely Ethiopian flavor, “a theology of liberation in the Ethiopian context,” as Tasgara Hirpo describes it.
Tumsa describes his own theology as a “holistic theology,” writing in a memo to Emmanuel Abraham that “western theology has lost the this-worldly dimension of human existence”; according to him, his holistic theology is merely “an effort in rediscovering total human life” in all its width and breadth.
It does not allow the suffering of this world to eclipse the joy of the next – the physical reality to overtake the spiritual – but instead he says that both are in need of redemption, salvation, and liberation.
In this regard, the two main EECMY theologians of the socialist revolution (Emmanuel Abraham and Gudina Tumsa) differ in their approach to state involvement.
For several years, Emmanuel Abraham held a position in the government that allowed him significant sway within political circles, all the while remaining faithful to the EECMY, of which he was president for 22 years.
He tended toward unity with the central powers rather than ‘rocking the boat,’ even though he saw his people suffering oppression.
Tumsa was more willing to part with the central powers in favor of the oppressed people of his church, as evidenced by his omission of Emperor Haile Selassie’s name from the normal intercessions in the Sunday liturgy in the months leading up to the socialist revolution in response to the feudal system that Gudina saw as an instrument of oppression.
Yet, however divergent their perspectives on church-state relations may appear, there was unity in that they both supported the creation of quasi-public institutions of education, health, and vocational training that the government not only supported, but also maintained when the network of institutions outgrew the administrative capability of the EECMY.
They were both dedicated to a church that worked in conjunction with the state for the development of better lives for their countrymen; where they differed was the measure of allegiance they meted out to the government or to the people.
Either way, the EECMY took seriously their commission to carry their message into the world.
Gudina Tumsa emerged as the leader of the movement to develop a characteristically Ethiopian theology and to share it for the edification not only of the nation, but also of other Christians abroad.
He describes the goal of the EECMY in relation to its global sister churches as “self-reliance” and “interdependence”.
“Independence is a legitimate political aim; it can never be an acceptable theological aim for the church,” Tumsa said in a debate.
His life showcases this in that, even as he urged the church to gain an independent theology based on the Ethiopian experience, he was also constantly in conversation with brothers and sisters in other nations, engaging in several multinational theological conferences.< In reference to Western theology, Gudina was both familiar and critical, having been trained at Luther Seminary in Minnesota, although it did give him a solid foundation for theologizing in Ethiopia.
In contrast to the Holistic theology that characterized both his perspective and that of the EECMY, Gudina Tumsa perceived that there was too great a disconnect between Western theology and ethics, and was said to have promoted a praxis-reflection-praxis ethical model.
He thought this provided an interesting alternative to the prevalent church-state separation that he believed characterized the American church.
Tumsa would have Western Christians reexamine their actions in light of a Holistic theological framework.
He urged them to reevaluate their ethical consciousness in light of national and global societal problems.
Finally, Tumsa's perspective on ecumenism theology is brought to light in Tumsa's and Abraham’s 1972 report “On the Interrelation between Proclamation of the Gospel and Human Development.” Among other arguments, they discuss the “simply frightening” reality arising as a result of the rapid growth and “phenomenal expansion” of the Christian Church across Africa in the last few decades.
They assert that not only will this result in an immense shortage of “physical plant” (e.g.
church buildings, religious education, literacy programs, etc.)
in countries such as Ethiopia who are struggling with so much growth, but it also establishes the “‘center of gravity' in the Christian world” firmly on the African continent.
This puts immense theological responsibility on the “historically young churches” of the world, which are not only dealing with a lack of theological experience and history, but will also have to manage a shortage of resources available to solve these mounting difficulties.
EECMY claimed almost 2.3 million members in 2007; according to the 2008 statistics, it has 5.3 million baptized members.
They operate a seminary in Addis Ababa with 150 students.
The EECMY approved the establishment of a full communion relationship with the North American Lutheran Church, at their Convocation, held in August 2011.
The EECMY decided to end her partnership with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America and the Church of Sweden, because of their acceptance of same-sex unions and non-celibate homosexual clergy, after a resolution that was approved at their 19th General Assembly, in Addis Ababa, on 11 February 2013.
The EECMY has established relationships also with the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod, and the Reformed Church in America, both from the United States.
The Mekane Yesus Church is a member of the Lutheran World Federation, the World Council of Churches, the All Africa Conference of Churches, the Lutheran Communion in Central & Eastern Africa and the World Communion of Reformed Churches.
The Mekane Yesus Church, because of its development work, is a member of ACT Development, a global alliance of churches and related agencies working on development that are committed to working together.
EECMY is a participant in the Wycliffe Global Alliance.
It is a member of the Fellowship of Christian Councils and Churches in the Great Lakes and Horn of Africa.
A Standing Advisory Council on Religious Education (SACRE) is an independent body which considers the provision of religious education in the area under the jurisdiction of its Local Authority, advising it and empowered to require a review of the locally agreed syllabus for Religious Education (RE).
A SACRE is made up of representatives of the Local Authority, the Church of England, Association of Teachers and representatives of other faith or other Christian groups, as well as, increasingly, humanists and other interested non-religious groups.
Each SACRE has wide-ranging statutory powers  including: Several difficulties with the SACRE process have been recorded.
Firstly, the ability of SACRE to represent the interests of the Buddhist community is highly questionable as minority religions often fail to be properly represented at all.
In practice, it would take a great deal of trouble to update Agreed Syllabuses to reflect the latest trends in faith community composition or to reflect new pedagogies of RE.
Even to monitor the national picture of AS content is difficult as they are often available only locally
H. Shelton Smith (1893–1987) was a scholar of Christianity who spent most of his career as a professor at Duke Divinity School in Durham, North Carolina.
He received his B.A.
from Elon College (now Elon University), was ordained as a minister by the United Church of Christ, and served in 1918–1919 as first lieutenant and chaplain with the American Expeditionary Force in France.
He received his graduate training at Yale University and went on to serve as Associate Professor of Religious Education at Teachers College, Columbia University and Associate Professor of Religious Education at Yale University.
Three years later, he was named Professor of Religious Education at Duke Divinity School, where he served from 1931 to 1963.
In 1953 he was named James B. Duke Professor at Duke Divinity School.
Smith was known as a fierce critic of liberal Christian trends that engaged in "a little deification of humanity."
He was well known for his advocacy for civil rights for African-Americans.
Books and articles about H. Shelton Smith include:
The Juaneño or Acjachemen are an indigenous tribe of Southern California.
The Juaneño traditionally lived along the coast in an area that is now part of Orange and San Diego counties.
Their Spanish name was given by Franciscan priests of the Mission San Juan Capistrano, who established it near their villages.
Today the people prefer the name of the Juaneño Band of Mission Indians, Acjachemen Nation.
They have been recognized as a tribe by the state of California and petitioned in 1982 for federal recognition as a tribe.
During the late Polonius period and continuing into the present day, the southern coastal area was occupied by the Native American society referred to by Spanish colonists as the Juaneño.
Spanish priests named them as the people served by the nearby Mission San Juan Capistrano.
Today many contemporary Juaneño who identify as descendants of the indigenous society living in the local San Juan and San Mateo Creek drainage areas prefer the adopted indigenous term Acjachemen as their autonym, or name for themselves.
The Acjachemen territory extended from Las Pulgas Creek in northern San Diego County up into the San Joaquin Hills along Orange County's central coast, and inland from the Pacific Ocean up into the Santa Ana Mountains.
Aliso Creek formed the northern boundary.
The bulk of the population occupied the outlets of two large creeks, San Juan Creek (and its major tributary, Trabuco Canyon) and San Mateo Co (combined with Arroyo San Onofre, which drained into the ocean at the same point).
§ The highest concentration of villages was along the lower San Juan Creek.
The Spanish built Mission San Juan Capistrano there.
The Acjachemen resided in permanent, well-defined villages and seasonal camps.
Village populations ranged from between 35 to 300 inhabitants, consisting of a single lineage in the smaller villages, and of a dominant clan joined with other families in the larger settlements.
Each clan had its own resource territory and was "politically" independent; ties to other villages were maintained through economic, religious, and social networks in the immediate region.
The elite class (composed chiefly of families, lineage heads, and other ceremonial specialists), a middle class (established and successful families), and people of disconnected or wandering families and captives of war comprised the three hierarchical social classes.
Native leadership consisted of the Nota, or clan chief, who conducted community rites and regulated ceremonial life in conjunction with the council of elders (puuplem), which was made up of lineage heads and ceremonial specialists in their own right.
This body decided upon matters of the community, which were then carried out by the Nota and his underlings.
While the placement of residential huts in a village was not regulated, the ceremonial enclosure (vanquesh) and the chief's home were most often centrally-located.
Fray Gerónimo Boscana, a Franciscan scholar who was stationed at San Juan Capistrano for more than a decade beginning in 1812, compiled what is widely considered to be the most comprehensive study of prehistoric religious practices in the San Juan Capistrano valley.
Religious knowledge was secret, and the prevalent religion, called Chinigchinich, placed village chiefs in the position of religious leaders, an arrangement that gave the chiefs broad power over their people.
Boscana divided the Acjachemen into two classes: the "Playanos" (who lived along the coast) and the "Serranos" (who inhabited the mountains, some three to four leagues from the Mission).
The religious beliefs of the two groups as related to creation differed quite profoundly.
The Playanos held that an all-powerful and unseen being called "Nocuma" brought about the earth and the sea, together with all of the trees, plants, and animals of sky, land, and water contained therein.
The Serranos, on the other hand, believed in two separate but related existences: the "existence above" and the "existence below".
These states of being were "altogether explicable and indefinite" (like brother and sister), and it was the fruits of the union of these two entities that created "...the rocks and sands of the earth; then trees, shrubbery, herbs and grass; then animals..." Their language was related to the Luiseño language spoken by the nearby Luiseño tribe located to the interior.
Considered to speak a dialect of Luiseño, the Juaneño were part of the Cupan subgroup of the Uto-Aztecan languages.
Their language became extinct by the early 20th century.
The tribe is working at reviving it, with several members learning it.
Their studies are based on the research and records of Anastacia Majel and John P. Harrington, who recorded the language in 1933.
(The tape recordings resurfaced around 1995).
The Juaneño Band of Mission Indians has organized a government.
It elects a tribal council, assisted by tribal elders.
The Juaneño Band headquarters is in San Juan Capistrano.
There are more than 2,800 enrolled members.
It is recognized as a tribe by the state of California.
They filed a petition in 1982 to seek federal recognition as a tribe, and are working with the Bureau of Indian Affairs on documentation.
In the 21st century, the tribe filed a land claim, seeking to regain the territory of the former Marine Corps Air Station El Toro.
This had been held by them as an Indian Rancheria until the 1930s.
At that time, the US government bought the land for use as a defense facility.
In May 2013, Acjachemen voters elected the first all-female Juaneño tribal council in its history.
Religious stratification is the division of a society into hierarchical layers on the premise of religious beliefs, affiliation, or faith practices.
According to Kingsley Davis and Wilbert E. Moore, “[t]he reason why religion is necessary is apparently to be found in the fact that human society achieves its unity primarily through the possession by its members of certain ultimate values and ends in common.” Furthermore, Davis and Moore contend that it is “the role of religious belief and ritual to supply and reinforce this appearance of reality” that these “certain ultimate values” have.
This is one possible explanation for why religion is one of the underlying factors which links various forms of inequality into a chain of stratification.
Broadly defined, social stratification is constituted by the division of a society into hierarchical layers of wealth, power, and prestige.
These layers, or strata, have been related to a variety of social categories, such as: Sociologists have paid attention to stratification based on race, class, gender, and ethnicity.
Religion is closely tied to ethnic affiliation.
Research suggests that religious stratification deserves more attention than it usually gets.
It is a common development in religiously diverse societies.
Once it becomes embedded in societies' laws, customs, and ideologies, it tends to persist.
It also has societal consequences.
Thus, it is important in its own right, but also in relation to other forms of stratification.
Sociologists James D. Davidson and Ralph E. Pyle (2011) argue that religious stratification emerged during America's colonial period, as a result of religious ethnocentrism, religious competition, and unequal resources.
They show that Anglicans, Congregationalists, and Presbyterians were over-represented among the economic, political, and educational elites.
Other Protestant groups, Catholics, Jews, and people with no religious preference ranked much lower in status.
The ranking of religious groups has changed in some ways over the course of U.S. history (Davidson and Pyle 2011, Pyle 1996).
Most notably, Jews have risen into the upper stratum, while Catholics have climbed into the upper-middle stratum.
For example, Anglicans (now Episcopalians), Congregationalists (now United Church of Christ), and Presbyterians remain in the upper stratum, and other Protestants groups such as Baptists (who ranked low in the colonial period) still have not experienced much upward mobility.
These developments are linked to inter-religious power struggles related to membership size, organizational capacity, and resources.
The struggles affect societal laws, ideologies, and customs.
In the colonial period, religious stratification was justified by law: Congregationalists were the "established" church in New England colonies; Anglicans were the "established" church in southern colonies.
The First and Fourteenth Amendments, along with other civil rights laws, have knocked the legal foundation out from under religious stratification.
The pro-Protestant ideology that emerged in the colonial period has been tempered somewhat by multiculturalism, but it remains an integral part of American culture.
Religious groups that have adapted most to this ideology have experienced more mobility than other groups.
Colonial elites also have developed a number of customs, such as church-sponsored preparatory schools, private colleges, universities, and legacy admissions that have perpetuated their prominence (Coe and Davidson 2011).
Another custom has been the tendency to appoint other religious elites to political office (Davidson, Kraus, and Morrissey 2005).
Jews and Catholics have developed customs of their own, such as parochial schools and business ownership, that have contributed to improvements in their social status.
Contrary to Davis and Moore's argument that stratification is functional for society, Davidson and Pyle (2011) argue that religious stratification destabilizes society.
It produces social problems, like religious hate crimes, that would not otherwise exist.
According to Evelyn L. Lehrer religion has a significant impact on marital stability, the choice of marital partner, fertility, women’s work at home and in the labor market, education, wages and wealth, and the timing of entry into first union and the choice of whether to cohabit.
In her research there are many instances in which stratification is the byproduct of religious faith practices.
Stratification based on religion is evident specifically in the realm of economics.
One case in point is the presence of women in the work force.
Lehrer explains “The Mormon and conservative Protestant faiths make a sharp distinction between male and female social and economic roles, encouraging the traditional division of labor within the household when young children are present” (713).
Depending on the socioeconomic class of the family, the expectation of the woman to adhere to these traditional social roles could be a factor by which the economic advancement of the family is limited.
Cited within Lehrer’s book are studies which examine levels of education, wages, and wealth among different religious faiths.
Lehrer writes in her book, “A conservative Protestant upbringing may be associated with an authoritarian approach to knowledge and a rejection of critical inquiry and unconventional modes of thinking, implying lower levels of certain types of home investments in child quality” (716).
This was derived from the work of Sherkat and Darnell published in 1999.
Also based on the work of Sherkat and Darnell published in 1997, is Lehrer’s assertion that conservative Protestant parents “often discourage their children from taking college preparatory courses, out of a concern that such courses may be harmful to them” (716).
Lehrer, as a result, contends that children raised by conservative Protestant parents “often acquire less human capital in their formative years and may thus be less able to benefit from college” (716).
So, as the topic is quite well developed, educational inequality is well researched and there is much evidence concerning the impact that an individual’s level of education can have in terms of the hierarchy of stratification.
It seems however that there can be seen another factor which should be allowed for in terms of determining the lines of stratification.
Perhaps the significant impact that education plays in inequality can be even better understood when religion is controlled for.
Other works which have investigated religious stratification include that of Gaetano Mosca whose research was published in his The Ruling Class.
Although this work was published in the late 1930s the concept that is brought forth is interesting to note and is perhaps still quite relevant in contemporary times.
Mosca states that “In societies in which religious beliefs are strong and ministers of the faith form a special class a priestly aristocracy almost always arises and gains possession of a more or less important share of the wealth and the political power.”
McFarlane v Relate Avon Ltd <small><nowiki>[2010] EWCA Civ 880; [2010] IRLR 872; 29 BHRC 249</nowiki></small> was an application in the Court of Appeal of England and Wales for permission to appeal against a decision of the Employment Appeal Tribunal, that a relationship counsellor dismissed for refusing to counsel same sex couples on sexual matters because of his Christian beliefs did not suffer discrimination under the Employment Equality (Religion or Belief) Regulations 2003.
The application was heard by Lord Justice Laws, who issued his decision on 29 April 2010 refusing the application.
The case attracted significant media attention due to the issues involved, particularly the balance of religious and LGBT rights, the intervention of former Archbishop of Canterbury George Carey, Lord Carey of Clifton, who provided a witness statement in support of the application, and the judge's strongly worded rebuttal of the applicant's submissions.
Gary McFarlane was a 48-year-old Christian from Bristol, employed as a relationship counsellor by the Avon branch of Relate, a charity providing relationship support including counselling for couples, families, young people and individuals, sex therapy, mediation and training courses.
He joined the organisation in August 2003, and a condition of his employment was acceptance of the group's equal opportunities policy, which required him to ensure "that no person... [receive] less favourable treatment on the basis of characteristics, such as... sexual orientation...".
Relate was also a member of the British Association for Sexual and Relationship Therapy, whose Code of Ethics required the therapist to "avoid discrimination... on grounds of... sexual orientation."
Although the applicant had found himself capable of assisting same-sex couples in counselling where discussion of sexual issues was not involved, in September 2006 he applied to undertake a diploma course in psycho-sexual therapy (PST) (a new name for sex therapy).
Managers at Relate considered his raising of a possible conscionable objection to assisting same-sex couples with sexual issues to be incompatible with the organisation's equal opportunities policy and would reduce the number of couples he were able to help.
On 12 December 2007, the applicant was asked to confirm in writing he would continue to counsel same-sex clients in both relationship counselling and PST with regard to all the sexual issues they may have brought, and that he would agree to carry out relationship work where it involved same-sex sexual issues.
In January 2008, McFarlane responded that he was unable to confirm this, and disciplinary proceedings were initiated.
During these he confirmed that he would provide the required services to same-sex couples and the proceedings were ended.
In March of that year however, he indicated to his supervisor that he might find it difficult to carry out such work, and on 18 March 2008, the applicant was dismissed from his post on the grounds: The applicant undertook an unsuccessful internal appeal against dismissal, and subsequently applied to the Employment Tribunal, claiming discrimination on the ground of religion or belief, harassment, unfair dismissal and wrongful dismissal.
The claim of wrongful dismissal was accepted on procedural grounds, but the other claims were dismissed, and the applicant appealed against the dismissal of the claims of discrimination and unfair dismissal to the Employment Appeal Tribunal.
McFarlane's action before the Employment Appeal Tribunal was heard on 9–10 September 2009, and the judgement issued on 30 November.
The Tribunal found that the applicant had suffered neither direct nor indirect discrimination under the Employment Equality (Religion or Belief) Regulations 2003 or the Human Rights Act 1998.
The Tribunal made particular reference to remarks by Lord Bingham in the House of Lords decision in R (Begum) v Denbigh High School, that "The Strasbourg institutions have not been at all ready to find an interference with the right to manifest religious belief in practice or observance where a person has voluntarily accepted an employment or role which does not accommodate that practice or observance and there are other means open to the person to observe his or her religion without undue hardship or inconvenience."
Reference was also made to Ladele v London Borough of Islington, a Christian registrar's unsuccessful appeal against dismissal for refusing to officiate civil partnership ceremonies.
McFarlane applied to the Court of Appeal to be allowed to appeal the decision of the Employment Appeal Tribunal, however his application was refused by Lord Justice Elias on 30 January 2010.
A renewed application was made before Lord Justice Laws on 15 April 2010.
It contained a request that his case be heard before a specially constituted court comprising the Lord Chief Justice and five Lords Justices with proven sensibility towards religious issues.
A witness statement was also submitted in support of the application by the former Archbishop of Canterbury, George Carey, Lord Carey of Clifton.
The statement supported Mr McFarlane's request for a specially constituted court, and also sought to refute suggestions that Christian teaching on same-sex unions was discriminatory and that such views were equivalent to homophobia.
The application was refused in a judgement delivered on 29 April 2010.
Lord Justice Laws stated that "the conferment of any legal protection or preference upon a particular substantive moral position on the ground only that it is espoused by the adherents of a particular faith, however long its tradition, however rich its culture, is deeply unprincipled."
As religious beliefs were by their nature impossible to prove, they were necessarily subjective, and could therefore only be considered to bind the behaviour of the believer and not that of anyone else.
He went on to state: Mr McFarlane has appealed to the ECtHR on freedom of religion grounds.
The court rejected his complaint in January, 2013.
Majid Majidi ( , born 17 April 1959, Tehran) is an Iranian film director, film producer, and screenwriter.
In his films, Majidi has touched on many themes and genres and has won numerous international awards.
Born in an Iranian middle-class family, he grew up in Tehran and at the age of 14 he started acting in amateur theater groups.
He then studied at the Institute of Dramatic Arts in Tehran.
After the Iranian Revolution in 1979, his interest in cinema brought him to act in various films, most notably Mohsen Makhmalbaf's Boycott in 1985.
In 1998, Majidi directed the film Children of Heaven, which was nominated to receive the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.
Though it lost to the Italian film Life Is Beautiful by Roberto Benigni, Children of Heaven is the first Iranian film to have been nominated by the Academy.
Majidi has directed several other feature films since Children of Heaven: The Color of Paradise in 2000, Baran in 2001, and The Willow Tree in 2005 (alternate English title One Life More).
He also recently directed a feature-length documentary titled Barefoot to Herat which chronicles life in refugee camps and the city of Herat during and after the anti-Taliban offensive of 2001.
In 2008, Majidi's acclaimed film The Song of Sparrows was the opening film of the Visakhapatnam International Film Festival in India.
Majid Majidi was one of five international film directors invited by the Beijing government to create a documentary short film to introduce the city of Beijing, in preparation for the 2008 Summer Olympics which was held in the Chinese capital; the project was titled "Vision Beijing".
Majidi pulled out of a Danish film festival in protest against the publication in Denmark of cartoons satirizing the Islamic prophet, Muhammad.
Majidi stated that he was withdrawing "to protest against insulting any religious belief or icon".
Majidi writes, "I believe in God and live with my beliefs in every single moment of my life.
I would like to protest against insulting any religious belief and icon.
For this reason, I would like to announce my withdrawal from your festival."
Majid Majidi has received numerous awards up to now.
Irreligion —the absence of religious belief or affiliation— is an increasing trend in New Zealand.
Although New Zealand has no established religion, Christianity has been the majority religious affiliation since European settlement in the 19th century.
The trend toward irreligion may indicate increasing secularisation as well as a rise in non-institutional spiritual belief.
Statistics New Zealand gathers information on religious affiliation in the five-yearly census.
Completing a census form is compulsory by law for every person in New Zealand on census night but respondents are able to object to answering the question of religious affiliation, and around 6% do object.
The trend shows an increasing proportion of residents in New Zealand declaring no religious affiliation.
In the 1991 census, 20.2% were in this category.
The proportion more than doubled in two decades, reaching 41.9% in the 2013 census.
Younger people were more likely to indicate they had no religion; except in the 10-14 age bracket, the majority of people under 35 at the 2013 Census stated they had no religion.
More males than females stated they had no religion, particularly among people aged 65 years or over.
There is significant debate among sociologists about the interpretation of this trend in census data.
The increase in those indicating 'no religion' is often cited in support of the secularisation thesis, although more detailed research of this group has thrown this assumption into question.
An alternative theory is that the data indicates a decline in institutional religious affiliation rather than simply a decrease in spiritual belief.
A 1985 survey showed that around one-quarter of those answering 'no religion' may believe in a god and that, conversely, between 7 percent and 36 percent of Christians (depending on their denomination) did not believe in the existence of deities.
The International Social Survey Programme was conducted in New Zealand by Massey University in 2008.
It received mail-responses from around one thousand New Zealanders above the age of 18, surveying issues of religious belief and practice.
The results of this survey indicated that 72% of the population believe in God or a higher power, 15% are agnostic, and 13% are atheist (with a 3% margin of error).
According to a report by the American Physical Society, religion may die out in New Zealand and eight other Western world countries.
If current trends persist, those stating no religion will outnumber those who state a religious affiliation by the 2026 census.
The New Zealand Association of Rationalists and Humanists and the Humanist Society of New Zealand promote a secular view of life without reference to supernatural agencies as one of its aims.
A campaign to create advertisements similar to the Atheist Bus Campaign in the United Kingdom began a fund-raising drive on 10 December 2009, and reached its initial target of $10,000 in donations within 48 hours, making it one of the most successful atheist campaigns of all time.
The Yir-Yoront are an Australian people living on the southwestern part of the Cape York Peninsula, Queensland in Australia, primarily in the two settlements Kowanyama and Pormpuraaw, having their foundations in the Mitchell River Mission and Edward River Missian, respectively.
They are originally speakers of the Yir-Yoront language, but today only a handful of speakers remaining, the others having shifted to English.
The Yir-Yoront remained quite isolated until the early 20th century, when the Mitchell River Mission was established, and they managed to stay politically autonomous until 1933.
The mission introduced European goods and easy trading, which slowly and steadily caused their culture to vanish.
Prior to the European contact the Yir-Yoront retained a flourishing culture with traditions, one of them being axe making.
Only initiated men had the skills to make axes, which meant that those who didn't have these skills had to rely upon those who had.
However, along with the Europeans came steel axes, which in general were superior to the handmade ones and much more accessible, and the tradition of axe making died out.
The missionaries started handing these out freely to the members of the community.
This had a very serious impact on the Yir-Yoront culturally.
Traditionally, the axe was a symbol of masculinity and power reserved for men, not for women and children.
Also, due to its variety of practical uses, women and children could only borrow an axe from the man.
This created a patriarchal subordination that vanished when the axes were spread amongst everyone.
This troubled many of the culture's members a great deal because of the way that their outlook upon life was formed by their religious belief.
A central dogma of their religion is that the life of their ancestors will shape how their lives will be today.
This goes all the way down to ownership.
For example, if one's ancestors never owned a boat, they believe that they were never supposed to own a boat and never will.
This religious belief was allowed to stay as the group stayed relatively isolated, and it would not allow for change to happen to anyone's life.
Therefore, when the axes were introduced, not just improved but also in multitude and to women and children and men alike, this shook the culture at its foundations and was instrumental to causing its eventual disappearance.
Intertribal marriage and political relations with the other peoples in the area, especially the Thaayorre people, were common and made the peoples in the area very unified.
This also means that some of the traditional lands of the Yir-Yoront today are occupied by speakers of other languages than the Yir-Yoront language, but which nevertheless are designated the Yir-Yoront.
They had a developed signed form of their language.
George Foot Moore (October 15, 1851 – May 16, 1931) was an eminent Asian scholar, historian of religion, author, Presbyterian minister, 33rd Degree Mason of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, and accomplished teacher.
Moore was born in West Chester, Pennsylvania, the son of Rev.
William Eves Moore and Harriet Foot Moore.
He was educated at private schools, West Chester Academy and Wyer's School, entered Yale College as a junior in 1870, then graduated from Yale in 1872, as a Phi Beta Kappa and member of the Skull and Bones society.
After teaching at Hopkins Grammar School from 1872–73, he engaged in study and private teaching in Columbus, Ohio, 1873–74, then served as principal of Lancaster (Ohio) High School 1874-75.
He studied theology in Columbus 1875-76 and graduated from Union Theological Seminary (New York) in 1877.
He was ordained to the Presbyterian ministry at Columbus February 8, 1878 and became pastor of Putnam Presbyterian Church in Zanesville, Ohio from 1878 to 1883.
He Married Mary Soper, daughter of Albert Gallatin and Mary Ann (Chester) Hanford on April 25, 1878, in Chicago.
They had two sons, William Eves, who died in infancy, and Albert Hanford.
In 1883 he was appointed to the chair of Hebrew at Andover Theological Seminary where he taught until 1902, serving as president of the seminary from 1899 to 1901 and lectured on the history of religion from 1893 to 1901.
During his service to Andover, he received the degree of Doctor of Divinity in 1885 from Marietta College, Ohio and 12 years later, from Yale University in 1897.
In 1902, he became a professor at the Harvard Divinity School, where he was appointed Frothingham Professor of the History of Religion in 1905, and Cabot Fellow for three years beginning in 1906.
During his service at Harvard he obtained a degree of Legum Doctor in 1903 from Western Reserve University.
He was a member of Harvard faculty from 1902 until retirement in 1928 and a preacher to the University from 1900 to 1903.
Moore was a member of the Deutsche Morgenlandische Gesellschaft, American Philological Association, Archaeological Institute of America, Society of Biblical Literature, among others, In addition, he was a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, serving as its president from 1921–24, and was a member of the American Oriental Society.
Besides contributing many articles on Biblical and Oriental subjects in learned journals, he wrote extensively for the "Encyclopaedia Biblica" and served as editor of the Harvard Theological Review.
Among his books, History of Religions (1914, 1919) and Judaism (two volumes, 1927) stand out as especially praiseworthy.
Mrs. Mary Soper Moore died April 16, 1924.
Moore died 7 years later due to general arteriosclerosis and chronic myocarditis, in Cambridge, Massachusetts, May 16, 1931.
This article details the history of religion in Malta.
The Republic of Malta is a Southern European country consisting of an archipelago situated in the centre of the Mediterranean, 80 km south of Sicily, 284 km east of Tunisia and 333 km north of Libya, with Gibraltar 1,755 km to the west and Alexandria 1,508 km to the east.
Malta covers just over 316 km2 in land area, making it one of the world's smallest states.
It is also one of the most densely populated countries worldwide.
Catholicism is the official religion in Malta as declared by the Maltese constitution.
Starting from around 3600 BC, Malta passed through a "temple period" which saw the construction of structures tied with religious beliefs such as the Ggantia temple Gozo (the "Ggantia phase" between 3600 and 3200 BC), the Hypogeum (the "Saflieni phase" between 3300 and 3000 BC) and the Tarxien temples, Hagar Qim and Mnajdra (the "Tarxien phase" between 3150 and 2500 BC).
Fertility rites were probably the religious practices at these sites.
Although no specifically pagan religious structures from the times of the Phoenicians, Carthaginians, Greeks and Romans survive, Malta must have hosted such structures at the time .
Catacombs in Rabat testify to an early Christian community in Malta.
The Acts of the Apostles tells the story of how Paul of Tarsus was shipwrecked in Malta on his way from Caesarea Maritima to Rome, sent by Porcius Festus, procurator of Judea, to stand trial before the Emperor.
Paul ministered in Malta for three months ( ).
According to tradition, Publius, the Roman Governor of Malta at the time, became the first Bishop of Malta following his conversion to Christianity.
His episcopate is said to have lasted thirty-one years before facing martyrdom in Athens.
There is scant information about the continuity of Christianity in Malta in subsequent years although tradition has it that there was a continuous line of bishops from Publius to the time of Emperor Constantine.
The Acts of the Council of Chalcedon record that, in 451 AD, a certain Acacius was Bishop of Malta (Melitenus Episcopus) and in 501 AD, a certain Constantinus, Episcopus Melitenensis, was present at the Second Council of Constantinople.
In 588 Tucillus, Miletinae civitatis episcopus, was deposed by Pope Gregory I and his successor, Trajan, was elected by the clergy and people of Malta in 599 AD.
The last recorded Bishop of Malta before the Arab invasion was a Greek by the name of Manas, who was subsequently incarnerated in Palermo.
Under the Arab occupation, the native Christians were allowed freedom of religion but had to pay jizya.
The Normans relieved Sicily and the Maltese Islands in 1091 and Roger I of Sicily was warmly welcomed by the native Christians.
The Jewish population of Malta reached a peak in the Middle Ages under Norman rule, which began in 1090, with 500 living on the main island and 350 on Gozo.
The medieval Jewish kabbalist Abraham Abulafia escaped persecution in Sicily and fled to Malta.
He died on the tiny island of Comino, in the 1290s.
In 1479, Malta and Sicily came under Aragonese rule and the Alhambra Decree of 1492 forced all Jews to leave the country with only a few belongings.
Several dozen Maltese Jews may have converted to Christianity in order to be able to remain in the country.
A Jewish subculture re-emerged in Malta during the reign of the Knights Hospitaller.
While the Maltese Islands were under the dominion of the Knights of Malta, from the 15th century through to the late 18th century, the Grand Master had the status of a prince of the Catholic Church, and enjoyed a special relationship with the Pope, which occasionally led to a considerable amount of friction with the local Bishops.
Over the years, the power of the Knights declined and the Order became unpopular.
This was around the time when the universal values of freedom and liberty were incarnated by the French revolution People from both inside the Order and outside appealed to Napoleon Bonaparte to oust the Knights.
The Little Corporal did not hesitate.
His fleet arrived in 1798, en route to his expedition of Egypt.
As a ruse towards the Knights, Napoleon asked for safe harbour to resupply his ships, and then turned his guns against his hosts once safely inside Valletta.
Grand Master Hompesch capitulated, and Napoleon entered Malta.
During his very short stay (six days), he accomplished quite a number of reforms, notably the creation of a new administration with a Government Commission, the creation of twelve municipalities, the setting up of a public finance administration, the abolition of all feudal rights and privileges, the abolition of slavery and the granting of freedom to all Turkish slaves.
On the judicial level, a family code was framed and twelve judges were nominated.
Public education was organised along principles laid down by Bonaparte himself, providing for primary and secondary education.
Fifteen primary schools were founded and the university was replaced by an ’Ecole centrale’ in which there were eight chairs, all very scientific in outlook: notably, arithmetic and stereometry, algebra and stereotomy, geometry and astronomy, mechanics and physics, navigation, chemistry, etc.
He then sailed for Egypt leaving a substantial garrison in Malta.
However when, within months, the French began closing convents and seizing church treasures the Maltese people rebelled, and the French garrison of General Claude-Henri Belgrand de Vaubois retreated into Valletta.
After several failed attempts by the locals to retake Valletta, they asked the British for assistance.
Rear Admiral Lord Horatio Nelson decided on a total blockade, and in 1800 the French garrison surrendered.
In 1814, Malta became part of the British Empire in accordance with the Treaty of Paris.
British rule lasted 150 years until 1964 when Malta gained independence and brought the first sizeable population of members of the Anglican church and other Protestant denominations.
From 1815 to 1820, the Anglican missionary William Jowett of the Church Missionary Society based his Mediterranean Mission in Malta.
British colonial administration, however, continued to show respect and deference towards Maltese Catholic customs.
The situation also led to the emergence of a small population of Catholics of British and Irish origin in Malta.
Historically part of the Diocese of Malta, Gozitans brought forward several petitions for the creation of an independent diocese, including in 1798, during the French occupation, and again in 1836.
A third petition, brought directly to Pope Pius IX in 1855, met with success.
Instrumental in this effort were a young priest named Don Pietro Pace, who would several years later serve as Bishop of Gozo, and Sir Adriano Dingli, Crown Advocate.
The British Colonial Office signalled its approval in October 1860.
In 1863, Archpriest Michele Francesco Buttigieg was elected Auxiliary Bishop of Malta with instructions to reside in Gozo.
One year later, on September 16, 1864, the Pope issued a Bull entitled "Singulari Amore" (With remarkable Love), which decreed that the Islands of Gozo and Comino were separated from the Diocese of Malta.
On September 22, 1864, Bishop Buttigieg was elected the first bishop of Gozo, with the "Matrice" in Victoria, dedicated to the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin (Maltese: "Marija Assunta"), serving as his Cathedral.
To this day there are two episcopal jurisdictions: the Archdiocese of Malta and the Diocese of Gozo.
Theppotsavam, or float festival, is a Hindu religious festival carried out in Hindu temples in parts of South India, mainly Tamil Nadu during the month of Chitthirai or Chaitra.
As a part of this festival, the principal idol of the temples is decorated and taken in procession through the tank of the temple.
Some of the temples where the float festival is celebrated are:
The Religion of the Future is a book by philosopher and politician Roberto Mangabeira Unger.
In the book, he argues that humanity is in need of a religious revolution that dispenses with the concept of God and elements of the supernatural, a revolution that expands individual and collective human empowerment by fostering a condition he calls “deep freedom”—a life of creativity, risk, experiment, and meaningful personal connection—protected by structure-revising social and political structures of an empowered democracy hospitable to the context-breaking capacities inherent in human life.
Unger opens the book by describing the four incurable defects of human life: death, groundlessness, insatiability, and belittlement.
The major world religious traditions, although having certain elements in common, have differed in how they have dealt with these four defects of human life.
Unger describes three “moments” in the evolution of religious belief: a first moment, when human life was so precarious that the flaws of existence did not occupy a central place in human consciousness; a second moment, when humans had achieved some degree of freedom from dependence on nature, allowing high culture to emerge and address the basic flaws of existence, which were now at the center of human consciousness.
A hallmark of this second moment of religious belief was the common feature of religion in assuring believers that everything is alright.
For the third moment to occur, Unger argues that a religious revolution is needed, a thoroughly naturalistic development of religious belief which offers no assurance that everything is alright, but offers a heightened, intensified, and more meaningful life in the present, rather than at some indefinitely postponed future time.
This “religion of the future” would offer a way of confronting life without illusions.
In the next three chapters, Unger will address each of the three major world religious traditions and explain their shortcomings as inspiration and sources for the religion of the future.
The religious tradition of overcoming the world, chiefly represented by Buddhism and Hinduism, is marked by a quest for serenity and benevolence.
Unger contends that “overcoming the world” cannot serve as a starting point for a future religious revolution, because this tradition seeks a deliberate dimming of consciousness and vitality in its quest for serenity.
The religion of the future, Unger contends, must turn toward the world, not away from it, and a religious tradition that denies time and distinction, and urges us to turn away from engagement with the world, cannot be a basis for the religious revolution Unger envisions.
The tradition of humanizing the world (represented by Confucianism) is marked by a belief that humans can find their place in the world by embracing an ethic of roles and the ennoblement of our relations with each other through this ethic of roles.
Unger contends that this tradition, too, is unsuited to be a starting point for the religion of the future because it gives too much weight and authority to social structures and roles that may match the dispositions only of the most virtuous, conformist members of society.
The picture of human morality presented by the tradition of humanizing the world is ultimately unrealistic, Unger contends, and fails to address in a satisfactory manner the flaws in human existence.
According to Unger, the religious tradition that holds the most promise as a starting point for the religion of the future is the tradition of “struggling with the world,” the semitic salvific religions including Judaism, Christianity and Islam.
The tradition of “struggling with the world” also has a secular voice, in the form of the major doctrines of emancipation including liberalism, socialism and democracy.
The metaphysical vision of the various forms of “struggling with the world” include several points in common: At the heart of the doctrine of the “struggle with the world,” both in its religious and secular variants, is a conception of the self as embodied spirit.
Unger explains a key aspect of the nature of the embodied spirit is that it can always overflow and exceed its contexts: “There is more in us, in each of us individually and in all of us collectively--the human race--than there is or ever can be in them.” Unger explains how this context-transcending quality of human beings as embodied spirit is manifested in the context of the market economy, in areas of rigorous intellectual inquiry such as mathematics and physics, and in the confrontation of human beings with the enigmas of their experience in the context of religion.
In each of these settings, Unger argues, we are not “ever entirely hostage to the social and conceptual worlds that have helped shape us.
They may direct us over much of our lives, but they do not own us.” This view of human nature as irrepressibly context-transcending is at the heart of what Unger finds useful for the religion of the future in the doctrine of the struggle with the world, and it is this element of the doctrine that he embraces as the starting point for his vision of a religion of the future.
But he finds that all of its contemporary forms, the tradition of struggling with the world is radically defective.
Unger argues that a new religious revolution would be thoroughly naturalistic and would pursue the task of enhancing life now, rather than promising salvation or reward in the indefinite future.
Such a revolution would likely contain elements that resemble past religious revolutions such as visionary teaching and exemplary action, but would combined with elements unknown to the religious revolutions of the past.
The religious revolution that Unger envisions would have the following qualities: Unger sets forth the structural changes in society that would be necessary to foster the emancipatory conditions of the religion of the future, to make society more open to experiment, fulfillment, connection, and surprise.
At the heart of his political proposals in this chapter is the general concept of “structure-revising structure,” and the various ways that this can be embodied in political and social institutions.
Unger’s vision for politics in this chapter includes “heating up” the political process, creating institutional mechanisms for breaking impasse between branches of government, and increasing mass mobilization of citizens so that all have a voice in the direction and operation of government.
Unger speculates on the quality that life would have under the regime instituted by a future religious revolution.
Individuals would become freer to innovate, experiment, take risks, and look for trouble.
Connections between people would be deeper and more meaningful.
Social mechanisms and safety nets would be in place that would allow and encourage this climate of experiment, risk, cooperation and love.
Reviewing The Religion of the Future in the Journal of the American Academy of Religion, Andrew B. Irvine wrote that “the book demands to be read not as a contribution to scholarly debate but as a direct intervention in the most important and urgent issues of today … No review could cover all the angles from which this book deserves to be appreciated—and criticized.” Irvine contends that Unger’s argument “dramatically ...simplifies the indefinitely complex data of religion, but it does so in the name of a single religious perspective.” Irvine asks: “What would this book look like if it were more deeply comparative and/or interreligious in its thinking?
It is comparative and interreligious, of course, but Unger’s exclusivistic affirmation of the ‘struggle with the world’ seems insufficiently informed.” Irvine concludes his review by applauding The Religion of the Future, stating that it “merits reading by philosophers, theologians, and activists, especially any who hold that a naturalistic metaphysics and praxis are vital to a flourishing human future.
Its weaknesses are as instructive as its strengths.” Bonaventure Chapman, writing in the Catholic publication Dominicana, described The Religion of the Future as “a prophetic vision of any future religion,” and stated that he considered the book, alongside Ronald Dworkin’s Religion Without God, to be an example of “religious atheism,” that is, a “new attitude to God” that “presents a new horizon for Christianity.” While strongly criticizing the book from a theistic standpoint, Chapman allows that this new religious atheism may represent a “maturing of the infantile atheism offered by the scientific naturalism perspective: it looks at the world and finds moral truth, objective value, and goodness.” Reviewing The Religion of the Future in Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews, Jeremy David Bendik-Keymer considered the book as the second part of the project that Unger began in The Self Awakened and concluded in The Singular Universe and the Reality of Time.
Bendik-Keymer summarizes Unger’s project in these works as one that “seeks a world in which we live in the present, free of repression of, or reactive attitudes towards, the existential limitations of being human and in which we act collectively to create the conditions for ongoing innovation and self-transformation” (internal citations omitted).
Bendik-Keymer complains that Unger’s depiction of human beings is “belittling” and concludes that Unger “has simply missed the mark… Unger may think of his work as preparation for prophesy, but it ends up as pontification.”
The Evolution of God is a 2009 book by Robert Wright that explores the history of the concept of God in the three Abrahamic religions through a variety of means, including archeology, history, theology, and evolutionary psychology.
The patterns which link Judaism, Christianity, and Islam and the ways in which they have changed their concepts over time are explored as one of the central themes.
One of the conclusions of the book that Wright tries to make is a reconciliation between science and religion.
The future of the concept of "God" is also prognosticated by Wright, who attempts to do so through a historical lens.
Among other things, Wright discusses the role of evolutionary biology in the development of religion.
Geneticist Dean Hamer hypothesized that some people have a specific gene that makes them prone to religious belief, which he calls the God gene, and that over time natural selection has favored these people because their spirituality leads to optimism.
Wright, however, thinks the tendency towards religious belief is not an adaptive trait influenced by natural selection, but rather a spandrel - a trait that happens to be supported by adaptations originally selected for other purposes.
Wright states that the human brain approaches religious belief based on how it adapted to survive and reproduce in early hunter-gatherer societies.
He points out four key traits of religion that align with the human brain's survival adaptations: Humans have adapted to pay attention to surprising and confusing information, because it could make the difference between life and death.
(For instance, if a person left the campsite and mysteriously never returned, it would be wise for the others to be on guard for a predator or some other danger.)
Understanding and controlling cause and effect also takes top priority in the human brain, since humans live in complex social groups where predicting and influencing the actions and thoughts of others gains them allies, status, and access to resources.
As human cognitive abilities and curiosity expanded over the centuries, their investigation of cause and effect expanded from the strictly social context out into the world at large, opening the doors for religions to explain things like weather and disease.
Though some of these explanations were strange and perhaps dubious, the fact that they could not be completely disproven lent them credibility; it was better to be cautious than dead.
Wright uses an example from the Haida people, indigenous to the northwest coast of North America, who would try to appease killer whale deities to calm storms out at sea; they would pour fresh water into the ocean or tie tobacco or deer tallow to the end of a paddle.
While some people certainly died despite these offerings, those who survived were a testament to the ritual's possible efficacy.
Mysterious and unproven beliefs can also persist in a culture because human brains have adapted to agree with the group consensus even if it goes against one's better judgment or personal beliefs, since a person alienated from the group loses protection, food, and mates.
Wright cites the Asch conformity experiments and even posits that Stockholm syndrome is not so much a syndrome as a natural product of evolution, the brain's way of ensuring that a person accepts and is accepted by his or her new social group.
In addition, beliefs can persist because once a person publicly announces a belief, social psychologists have found that he or she is inclined to focus on evidence supporting that belief while conveniently ignoring evidence contradicting it, a logical fallacy known as cherry picking.
Journalist and political commentator Andrew Sullivan gave the book a positive review in The Atlantic, saying that the book "...gave me hope that we can avoid both the barrenness of a world without God and the horrible fusion of fundamentalism and weapons of mass destruction."
Newsweek religion editor, Lisa Miller, described The Evolution of God as a reframing of the faith vs. reason debate.
Drawing a contrast to such authors as Sam Harris, Richard Dawkins and Christopher Hitchens, Miller gives an overall positive review of the book's approach to the examination of the concept of God.
In a review for The New York Times, Yale professor of psychology Paul Bloom said, "In his brilliant new book, “The Evolution of God,” Robert Wright tells the story of how God grew up."
Bloom sums up Wright's controversial stance as, "Wright’s tone is reasoned and careful, even hesitant, throughout, and it is nice to read about issues like the morality of Christ and the meaning of jihad without getting the feeling that you are being shouted at.
His views, though, are provocative and controversial.
There is something here to annoy almost everyone."
However, in a New York Times review that included a reply from Wright, Nicholas Wade, a writer for the "Science Times" section, notes the book is "a disappointment from the Darwinian perspective", because evolution "provides a simpler explanation for moral progression than the deity Wright half invokes."
Wright replied to Wade's comments, saying Wade had misunderstood Wright's argument and that "The deity (if there is one–and I’m agnostic on that point) would be realizing moral progress through evolution’s creation of the human moral sense (and through the subsequent development of that moral sense via cultural evolution, particularly technological evolution)."
Wade replied that "evolution seems to me a sufficient explanation for the moral progress that Mr. Wright correctly discerns in the human condition, so there seemed no compelling need to invoke a deity."
To promote the book, Wright did a variety of interviews, including with the New York Times, Publishers Weekly, and Bill Moyers Journal.
He also did a series of videos on Bloggingheads.tv, a website he co-founded with Mickey Kaus.
Wright also appeared on The Colbert Report on August 18, 2009.
Nusrathul Islam Madrasa is a Madrasa (an Islamic religious school) situated in Pullancheri, Manjeri, Kerala, India.
This is an institution which gives Islamic religious education alongside conventional education.
Nusrathul Islam Madrasa is affiliated to Samastha Kerala Islam Matha Vidyabhyasa Board (Malayalam: സമസ്ത കേരള ഇസ്‌ലാംമത വിദ്യാഭ്യാസ ബോര്‍ഡ്, meaning All Kerala Islamic Religious Education Board).
This Madrassa is equivalent to a secondary school in the conventional schooling, and hence hosts classes for grade 1 through 10.
A referendum on restoring voluntary religious education to state schools was held in Estonia between 17 and 19 February 1923.
It was approved by 71.9% of voters with a turnout of 66.2%.
On 5 January 1921 the Christian Democratic Party (KDP) joined Konstantin Päts' Farmers' Assemblies-led the government, and was given the Education ministry portfolio.
The following year the KDP caused a split in the government by introducing a bill to provide religious education in state schools, funded by the state.
Although the proposal was rejected by the Riigikogu, the party forced a referendum on the issue in early 1923.
As the referendum was a rejection of government policy, this was considered to be a vote of no confidence on the rest of the government.
The Riigikogu was subsequently dissolved and fresh elections called.
Istanbul University ( ) is a prominent Turkish university located in Istanbul.
The main campus is adjacent to Beyazıt Square in the Fatih district, on the European side of the city.
Istanbul University was established in 1453 by the Ottoman Sultan Mehmed II.
However, Richard Honig, a German law historian, who claims that Byzantine and Ottoman traditions could be analyzed together, expressed that the history of Istanbul University can be traced back to 1 March 1321.
The university, which was first established in today's main building, was equivalent to Roman universities consisting of schools of medicine, law, philosophy and letters, and is considered to be the pioneer of university education in Istanbul.
It was founded as an institution of higher education named the Darülfünûn (دار الفنون) (House of Multiple Sciences) on 23 July 1846; but the Medrese (Islamic theological school) which was founded immediately after Mehmed II conquered Constantinople (Istanbul) in 1453 is regarded as the precursor to the Darülfünûn which evolved into Istanbul University in 1933.
Education in a number of sciences and fields (such as medicine, mathematics, astronomy, cartography, geography, history, philosophy, religion, literature, philology, law, etc.)
became available, and, until the 19th century, they were instrumental in educating the ruling cadres of the Ottoman society.
However, when the medreses were no longer able to meet the needs of the modern world, a restructuring process began, and as a result, the institutions of higher education called Darülfünûn, the core of Istanbul University, was established.
An institution of higher education named the Darülfünûn-u Osmanî (دار الفنون عثماني) (Ottoman House of Sciences) was created in 1863, but suppressed in 1871.
Its first rector was Hasan Tahsini, regarded as one of the most important Ottoman scholars of the 19th century.
In 1874 the Imperial University (Darülfünûn-u Sultanî) (دار الفنون سلطاني) started classes in law in French, but was closed in 1881.
The Imperial University, now known as Darülfünûn-u Şahâne (دار الفنون شهان) was refounded in 1900, with the departments of theology, arts, mathematics, science and philology.
In 1924, the faculties of law, medicine, arts and sciences were established in Istanbul University (İstanbul Darülfünûnu), as the university was now called.
Islamic theology was added in 1925, but in 1933 the university was reorganized without the latter.
The first modern Applied Physics courses were given at the Darülfünûn on 31 December 1863, which marked the beginning of a new period, and on 20 February 1870, the school was renamed as the Darülfünûn-u Osmanî (Ottoman House of Multiple Sciences) and reorganized to meet the needs of modern sciences and technologies.
Starting from 1874, some classes of Literature, Law and Applied Sciences were given at the building of Galatasaray High School, which continued regularly until 1881.
On 1 September 1900, the school was renamed and reorganized as the Darülfünûn-u Şahâne (Imperial House of Multiple Sciences) with courses on Mathematics, Literature and Theology.
On 20 April 1912, the school was renamed as the İstanbul Darülfünûnu (Istanbul House of Multiple Sciences) while the number of courses were increased and the curricula were modernized with the establishment of the Schools of Medicine, Law, Applied Sciences (Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics), Literature and Theology.
On 21 April 1924, the Republic of Turkey recognized the İstanbul Darülfünûnu as a state school, and on 7 October 1925, the administrative autonomy of İstanbul Darülfünûnu was recognized while the Schools (within the old Medrese system) became modern Faculties.
On 1 August 1933, İstanbul Darülfünûnu was reorganized as İstanbul Üniversitesi (Istanbul University) following the educational reforms of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk.
Classes officially began on 1 November 1933.
The university has seventeen faculties on five campuses; the main campus being on Beyazıt Square, which was originally built by Constantine the Great as the Forum Tauri and was later enlarged by Theodosius the Great as the Forum of Theodosius during the Roman period.
The main campus building with its landmark gate was previously used as the headquarters of the Harbiye Nezareti (Ministry of War) by the Ottoman government.
Located on the grounds is the Beyazıt Tower, a tall fire-watch tower.
The grounds were previously the location of the Ottoman era Eski Saray (Old Palace).
Some Roman and Byzantine ruins are still visible on the grounds.
The university has a teaching staff of 2,000 professors and associates and 4,000 assistants and younger staff.
More than 60,000 undergraduate and 8,000 postgraduate students follow the courses offered by Istanbul University every year.
The main gate was depicted on the reverse of the Turkish 500 lira banknotes of 1971–1984.
Thomas John Joseph Paprocki (born August 5, 1952) is an American prelate of the Roman Catholic Church who serves as Bishop of the Diocese of Springfield, Illinois.
The third of nine children, Thomas Paprocki was born in Chicago, Illinois; he has six brothers and two sisters.
A lifelong fan of hockey, he began playing at a young age in the basement of his father's drugstore and supports the Chicago Blackhawks.
He graduated from Quigley Preparatory Seminary South in 1970, and then entered Niles College, where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1974.
From 1974 to 1979, he studied at St. Mary of the Lake Seminary, where he earned a Bachelor's in Sacred Theology (1976), Master's in Divinity (1978), and Licentiate in Sacred Theology (1979).
Paprocki was ordained to the priesthood by John Cardinal Cody on May 10, 1978, and then served as associate pastor at St. Michael's Church in South Chicago until 1983.
In 1981, he earned his Juris Doctor from DePaul University College of Law and founded the Chicago Legal Clinic to assist the working poor and disadvantaged.
Paprocki served as administrator of St. Joseph Church from 1983 to 1986, and as vice-chancellor of the Archdiocese of Chicago from 1985 to 1987.
He then furthered his studies in Rome at the Pontifical Gregorian University, where he obtained a Licentiate in Canon Law (1989) and Doctorate in Canon Law (1991).
Upon his return to the United States, he was named chancellor of the Archdiocese in 1992, and later pastor of St. Constance Church in 2000.
In 2013 he received an MBA from the University of Notre Dame.
On January 24, 2003, Paprocki was appointed Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago and Titular Bishop of Vulturaria by Pope John Paul II.
He received his episcopal consecration on the following March 19 from Francis Cardinal George, O.M.I., with Bishops Raymond E. Goedert and Ricardo Watty Urquidi, M.Sp.S., serving as co-consecrators.
As an auxiliary, he served as Episcopal Vicar for Vicariate IV, and as the Cardinal's liaison for Polonia and for Health and Hospital Affairs.
He is also a member of the Boards of Directors of the Polish American Association and the Polish American Leadership Initiative.
When Governor Rod Blagojevich issued an executive order in 2005 requiring all pharmacists in the state to dispense prescription contraceptives, Paprocki condemned the order in Blagojevich's presence, saying, "I am dismayed that our secular society has reached the point that individuals are being required by law to violate their personal religious beliefs in order to accommodate the selfish demands of special interest groups."
In November 2008, Paprocki spoke out against the Freedom of Choice Act (FOCA), saying, "It could mean discontinuing obstetrics in our hospitals, and we may need to consider taking the drastic step of closing our Catholic hospitals entirely.
It would not be sufficient to withdraw our sponsorship or to sell them to someone who would perform abortions.
That would be a morally unacceptable cooperation in evil."
In a subsequent interview with The Chicago Tribune, he reaffirmed his position, saying, "If Catholic hospitals were required by federal law to perform abortions, we'd have to close our hospitals."
When remarking about who was responsible for the sexual abuse crises in the Catholic Church, he said that the devil was the principal force behind the lawsuits.
On April 20, 2010 Bishop Paprocki was appointed as the Bishop of Springfield by Pope Benedict XVI.
He was installed at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception on June 22, 2010.
In November 2010, he organized a conference on exorcism.
In April 2012, he was named as part of a three-member board of American Catholic Bishops (together with the chair, Seattle's Archbishop, J. Peter Sartain, and Toledo's Bishop, Leonard P. Blair, who had done some preliminary work beforehand) charged by the Vatican's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF) with a multi-year investigation into the U.S.
Leadership Conference of Women Religious (LCWR).
He coined the name of the Fortnight for Freedom, a campaign of the American bishops on behalf of religious liberty.
In September 2012, Paprocki told his parishioners that voting "for a candidate who promotes actions or behaviors that are intrinsically evil and gravely sinful makes you morally complicit and places the eternal salvation of your own soul in serious jeopardy."
His article went on at length discussing how the Democratic Party embraced objectionable doctrines.
In November 2013, Paprocki said that Satan was behind Illinois recent legalization of same-sex marriage and held an exorcism ceremony, during which he read the exorcism rite, "in reparation for the sin of same-sex marriage".
Leonhard Schiemer (c. 1500 – 14 January 1528) was an early pacifist Anabaptist writer and martyr whose work survives in the Ausbund.
Schiemer was born around 1500 in Vöcklabruck, where he grew up in a religious environment and trained to be a tailor.
He originally wanted to become a Roman Catholic priest but as an adolescent joined the Franciscan monastery in Judenburg.
Six years later he left he monastery and arrived at Nürnberg, where he — disappointed with monastic life — returned to tailoring.
Biographers disagree whether Schiemer first made contact with Anabaptists in Nürnberg.
Schiemer may have made arrangements to travel to Nikolsburg in Moravia, where Balthasar Hubmaier was an important Anabaptist leader.
Here he witnessed the May 1527 disputation between the Stäbler (shepherd's staff) und Schwertler (sword) Anabaptist groups.
While the Stäbler under the leadership of Hans Hut held a position of absolute nonviolence, Hubmeier and the Schwertler professed that Christians were permitted defend themselves and others with the sword.
It is unknown which of these positions Schiemer adopted.
Some biographers think he probably adopted Hubmeier’s view, because later in Vienna he was reluctant to accept Hans Hut.
Only a few weeks after the Nikolsburg disputation Leonhard Schiemer went to Vienna.
There he again met — as already mentioned — Hans Hut and the Anabaptist congregation at Kärntnerstraße.
Within two days, Schiemer was won over to the Anabaptist view and at the same time convinced of the pacifist beliefs of the Stäbler.
He was baptized and became a member of the Vienna congregation.
Schiemer immediately began an extensive missionary endeavor.
Next he worked a short time in Steyr und Salzburg, taking part in the August 1527 Augsburg Martyrs' Synod and was sent from there as a messenger to Tyrol, where he settled in Rattenberg on the Inn.
He joined an existing Anabaptist congregation there, which called him to serve as bishop shortly after his arrival.
A few weeks later, Schiemer was arrested at the instigation of the Roman Catholic authorities.
An Anabaptist bishop present at the interrogation reported on his activities: within six months of his baptism he preached in 28 cities, winning more than 200 converts to Anabaptism.
Schiemer used the short stay in prison (until January 1528) for composing and publishing a number of works including: Schiermer's writings where widely circulated and after his death had a significant influence on the development of Austrian and south German Anabaptism.
Schiemer appears to have confirmed the doctrine of the Trinity.
Schiemer separated the outer word of God, the Bible, received through one's ear, from the inner word, the direct word of God, that only a spirit-possessed person is able to hear.
The inner word leads to loving God and following Christ, while the outer word is only used to devise external rules and regulations.
It makes people merely good citizens, but not devoted and sacrificial followers of Jesus.
The followers of Schiemer also the renounced private property.
He was fascinated with early Christian communism and taught this as a sign of the true Christian.
The Hutterites have made this ideal a principle of their community.
The central message of Schiemer's writing is on the theology of the cross and Passion mysticism of the Late Middle Ages: Christ suffered for the faithful of this world.
His theology also appears in the hymns he composed, which have been passed down in the Ausbund, which is still used by descendants of the Anabaptists, the Amish.
In January 1528 Leonhard Schiemer began looking for a way to escape, but failed.
He was arrested again and subsequently handed over to the executioner.
After extensive torture he was ultimately beheaded on 14 January 1528 in Rattenberg.
Schiemer's martyrdom was not the only in Rattenberg.
Between 1528 und 1540 the Roman Catholic authorities ordered the execution of another 70 Anabaptists men and women who testified to their religious beliefs with their blood.
Leonhard Schiemer is counted — in spite of his short career — as the most important representative of the Anabaptists associated with Hans Hut.
In spite of his intellectual relationship with Hut, Schiemer remained an independent thinker.
He deemphasized the apocalyptic teachings of Hut, promoting the ideal community, which is prepared for suffering and sacrfice in this world and consciously renounces the use of power und force.
His ideas can be found in avant-garde and modern pacifist movements.
Cosmic Consciousness: A Study in the Evolution of the Human Mind is a 1901 book by Richard Maurice Bucke, a Canadian psychiatrist.
In this book, he explored the concept of Cosmic Consciousness, which he defined as "a higher form of consciousness than that possessed by the ordinary man."
In Cosmic Consciousness, Bucke stated that he discerned three forms, or degrees, of consciousness: Moores said that Bucke's cosmic consciousness is an interconnected way of seeing things "which is more of an intuitive knowing than it is a factual understanding."
Moores pointed out that, for scholars of the purist camp, the experience of cosmic consciousness is incomplete without the element of love, "which is the foundation of mystical consciousness": Juan A. Herrero Brasas said that Bucke's cosmic consciousness refers to the evolution of the intellect, and not to "the ineffable revelation of hidden truths."
According to Brasas, it was William James who equated Bucke's cosmic consciousness with mystical experience or mystical consciousness.
Gary Lachman notes that today Bucke's experience would most likely be 'explained' by the so-called "God spot," or more generally as a case of temporal lobe epilepsy, but he is sceptical of these and other 'organic' explanations.
Bucke identified only male examples of cosmic consciousness.
He believed that women were not likely to have it.
(However, there are some women amongst the 'additional cases' listed in the second half of the book.)
He regarded Walt Whitman as "the climax of religious evolution and the harbinger of humanity's future."
According to Michael Robertson, Cosmic Consciousness and William James's book The Varieties of Religious Experience have much in common: James popularized the concept of religious experience, which he explored in The Varieties of Religious Experience.
He saw mysticism as a distinctive experience which supplies knowledge of the transcendental.
He considered the "personal religion" to be "more fundamental than either theology or ecclesiasticism", and states: Regarding cosmic consciousness, William James, in his essay The Confidences of a "Psychical Researcher," wrote: James understood "cosmic consciousness" to be a collective consciousness, a "larger reservoir of consciousness," which manifests itself in the minds of men and remains intact after the dissolution of the individual.
It may "retain traces of the life history of its individual emanation."
A classification similar to that proposed by Bucke was used by the influential theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher (1768–1834), viz.
: In Schleiermacher's theology, higher consciousness "is the part of the human being that is capable of transcending animal instincts."
It is the "point of contact with God" and the essence of being human.
When higher consciousness is present, people are not alienated from God by their instincts.
The relation between higher and lower consciousness is akin to St. Paul's "struggle of the spirit to overcome the flesh."
Higher consciousness establishes a distinction between the natural and the spiritual sides of human beings.
The concept of religious experience was used by Schleiermacher and by Albert Ritschl to defend religion against scientific and secular criticism and to defend the belief that moral and religious experiences justify religious beliefs.
Wayne Proudfoot (1939 – ), a 20th-century theologian, traced the roots of the notion of religious experience to Schleiermacher, who had argued that religion is based on a feeling of the infinite.
Cosmic consciousness bears similarity to Hegel's Geist: Teilhard de Chardin's concept of the noösphere also bears similarity to Bucke's ideas.
According to Paul Marshall, a philosopher of religion, cosmic consciousnes bears resemblances to some traditional pantheist beliefs.
According to Ervin László, cosmic consciousness corresponds to Jean Gebser's integral consciousness and to Don Edward Beck and Christopher Cowan's turquoise state of cosmic spirituality.
Some modern psychologists and theologians have made reference to Bucke’s work.
They include Erich Fromm, Robert S. de Ropp, and Abraham Maslow.
Others who have used the concept of cosmic consciousness, as introduced by Bucke in 1901, include Albert Einstein, Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, and Alan Watts.
Many of those who have used psychedelic drugs, such as LSD and psilocybin, have said that they have experienced cosmic consciousness.
Diarmaid Ninian John MacCulloch, (born 31 October 1951) is a British historian and academic, specialising in church history and the history of Christianity.
Since 1995, he has been a fellow of St Cross College, Oxford; he was formerly the senior tutor.
Since 1997, he has been Professor of the History of the Church at the University of Oxford.
Though ordained as a deacon in the Church of England, MacCulloch declined ordination to the priesthood because of the church's attitude to his homosexuality.
In 2009 he encapsulated the evolution of his religious beliefs: "I was brought up in the presence of the Bible, and I remember with affection what it was like to hold a dogmatic position on the statements of Christian belief.
I would now describe myself as a candid friend of Christianity."
Diarmaid MacCulloch was born in Kent, England.
He attended Hillcroft Preparatory School and Stowmarket Grammar school in Suffolk.
He subsequently studied history at Churchill College, Cambridge, where he obtained a BA degree in 1972; this was promoted to an MA degree 1976.
During that period, he was also organ scholar at the college.
He then completed a Diploma in Archive Administration at Liverpool University in 1973 and then returned to Cambridge to complete a PhD degree in 1977 on Tudor history under the supervision of Sir Geoffrey Rudolph Elton, combining this with a position as Junior Research Fellow at Churchill College.
He co-edits the Journal of Ecclesiastical History.
MacCulloch joined the Gay Christian Movement in 1976, serving twice on its committee and briefly as honorary secretary.
From 1978 to 1990 he tutored at Wesley College, Bristol and taught church history in the department of theology at the University of Bristol.
He interrupted his teaching to study for the Oxford Diploma in Theology (awarded 1987) at Ripon College Cuddesdon.
In 1987 he was ordained as a deacon in the Church of England and from 1987 to 1988 he served as a non-stipendiary minister at All Saints' Clifton with St John's in the Diocese of Bristol.
However, in response to a motion put before the General Synod in 1987 by the Revd Tony Higton regarding the sexuality of clergy, he declined ordination to the priesthood and ceased to minister at Clifton.
Regarding the conflict between his homosexuality and the Church of England and his own retreat from orthodoxy he said: <blockquote> I was ordained Deacon.
But, being a gay man, it was just impossible to proceed further, within the conditions of the Anglican set-up, because I was determined that I would make no bones about who I was; I was brought up to be truthful, and truth has always mattered to me.
The Church couldn't cope and so we parted company.
It was a miserable experience.
His book Reformation: Europe's House Divided 1490–1700 (2003) won the 2004 National Book Critics Circle Award and 2004 British Academy Book Prize, adding to his earlier success in carrying off the 1996 James Tait Black Memorial Prize for Thomas Cranmer: A Life.
A History of Christianity: The First Three Thousand Years, was published in September 2009 with a related 6-part television series called A History of Christianity which first aired on BBC 4 in 2009 and then on BBC 2 and BBC 4 in 2010.
The book won McGill University's Cundill Prize, a $75,000 prize, the largest such prize in Canada at the time.
In 2012, he wrote and presented How God Made the English, a three-part documentary series tracing the history of English identity from the Dark Ages to the present day.
In 2013 he presented a documentary on Thomas Cromwell and his place in English ecclesiastical and political history.
His 2015 series Sex and the Church explored how Christianity has shaped western attitudes to sex, gender and sexuality throughout history.
He sits on the European Advisory Board of Princeton University Press.
MacCulloch was elected a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London in 1978 (FSA), a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society in 1982 (FRHistS), and a Fellow of the British Academy in 2001 (FBA).
MacCulloch was awarded a Doctor of Divinity (DD) degree by the University of Oxford in 2001; the DD is the highest degree awarded by Oxford.
In 2003, he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Letters (DLitt) degree by the University of East Anglia.
MacCulloch was knighted in the 2012 New Year Honours for services to scholarship.
While Debretts gives his formal style as "Prof Sir", MacCulloch has expressed the preference that he not be addressed in that manner, in accordance with protocol which dictates that clergy holding knighthoods are addressed as "Sir" (or Dame) only if so honoured before their ordination.
Ethiopian philosophy is the philosophical corpus of the territories of present-day Ethiopia and Eritrea.
Besides via oral tradition, it was preserved early on in written form through Ge'ez manuscripts.
This philosophy occupies a unique position within African philosophy.
The character of Ethiopian philosophy is determined by the particular conditions of evolution of the Ethiopian culture.
Thus, Ethiopian philosophy arises from the confluence of Greek and Patristic philosophy with traditional Ethiopian modes of thought.
Because of the early isolation from its sources of Abrahamic spirituality – Byzantium and Alexandria – Ethiopia received some of its philosophical heritage through Arabic versions.
The sapiential literature developed under these circumstances is the result of a twofold effort of creative assimilation: on one side, of a tuning of Orthodoxy to traditional modes of thought (never eradicated), and vice versa, and, on the other side, of absorption of Greek pagan and early Patristic thought into this developing Ethiopian-Christian synthesis.
As a consequence, the moral reflection of religious inspiration is prevalent, and the use of narrative, parable, apothegm and rich imagery is preferred to the use of abstract argument.
This sapiential literature consists in translations and adaptations of some Greek texts, namely of the Physiolog (cca.
5th century A.D.), The Life and Maxims of Skendes (11th century A.D.) and The Book of the Wise Philosophers (1510/22).
In the 17th century, the religious beliefs of Ethiopians were challenged by King Suseynos' adoption of Catholicism, and by a subsequent presence of Jesuit missionaries.
The attempt to forcefully impose Catholicism upon his constituents during Suseynos' reign inspired further development of Ethiopian philosophy during the 17th century.
Zera Yacob (1599–1692) is the most important exponent of this renaissance.
His treatise Hatata (1667) is a work often included in the narrow canon of universal philosophy.
Zera Yacob had a culture entirely theological.
Although of humble birth, he earned respect for his intellectual capacities, and went on to pursue the traditional Ethiopian theological education.
Zera Yacob mastered Coptic theology and Catholic theology, and he had extensive knowledge of Jewish and Islamic religions.
His spiritual vade mecum was David’s Book of Psalms, in which he sought comfort and inspiration.
Knowing thus two Christian interpretations of the Bible, as well as the two other Abrahamic religions, and seeing the contradictions between them, Zera Yacob is led to refuse the authority of the Ethiopian tradition and of any tradition in general.
He comes to think that the tradition is infested by lies, because men, in their arrogance, believe that they know everything and thus refuse to examine things with their own mind, blindly accepting what has been transmitted to them by their forefathers.
The philosopher accepts then as unique authority his reason, and accepts from the Scriptures and from the dogmas only what resists a rational inquiry.
He affirms that the human reason can find the truth, if it searches it and does not get discouraged in front of the difficulties.
Thus, by his piece-meal examination (this is what hatätä means), Zera Yacob arrives at an argument for the existence of God (an essence uncreated and eternal), based on the impossibility of an infinite chain of causes, and at the conviction that the Creation is good, because God is good.
This belief is the basis for a criticism of ascetic morals and of some Jewish and Islamic moral precepts as well.
By identifying the will of God with what is rational Zera Yacob rejects most of these moral precepts (e.g.
concerning polygamy, or fasting, or sexual or alimentary interdictions) as blasphemy.
He seems to think that all is good for the good one, reminding thus of the mode of thought expressed in the profession of faith of the other great Zera Yaqob, the Emperor from the 15th century.
Zera Yacob had a disciple, Walda Heywat, who also wrote a philosophical treatise, systematising his master’s thought.
He accorded more attention to the practical and educational problems, and he tried to connect Zera Yacob’s philosophy with the kind of wisdom expressed in the earlier sapiential literature.
Walda Heywat recurs intensively to illustrations and parabola, and many times the source of his examples is the Book of the Wise Philosophers.
Although his work is arguably less original than that of his master's, it can be considered "more Ethiopian", since it represents a synthesis through which some ideas engendered by Zera Yacob's rejection of tradition are brought together with traditional Christian-inspired wisdom.
It is "more Ethiopian" also in the sense that it addresses some practical, social and moral issues that most Ethiopians of his time encountered in their lives.
Thus, Walda Heywat's work is less speculative, but more national in character than the treatise of his master, Zera Yacob.
Sergei Nikolaevich Bulgakov ( ; ; – 13 July 1944) was a Russian Orthodox Christian theologian, philosopher, and economist.
Sergei Nicolaevich Bulgakov was born on 16 July 1871 to the family of an Orthodox priest (Nikolai Bulgakov) in the town of Livny, Oryol guberniya, in Russia.
He studied at Orel seminary, then at Yelets gimnasium.
In 1894 he graduated from the Law School of Moscow University, where he had also undertaken a serious study of political economy.
During his study at the seminary Bulgakov became interested in Marxism and took part in the Legal Marxism movement.
Under the influence of works of Russian religious thinkers (Leo Tolstoy, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Vladimir Solovyov, etc.
), in the course of his meetings and arguments with Leo Tolstoy he found his religious beliefs again.
He wrote a book about his evolution (Sergey Bulgakov, From Marxism to Idealism, 1903).
Such an evolution was common for the Russian intelligentsia of the time, and he soon became one of their recognised ideologists.
A primary contributor to the books Problems of Idealism (1902), Vekhi, Problems of Religion, About Vladimir Solovyev, About the Religion of Leo Tolstoy, The Religion of Solovyov's Philosophical Society, he participated in the journals New Way (Новый Путь) and Questions of Life (Вопросы Жизни).
He was a leader of the publisher Way (Путь, 1911–1917), where he printed many important works of contemporary Orthodox theology.
In 1907 he was elected as an independent Christian Socialist to the Second Duma.
He published the important original monographs Philosophy of Economy («Философия хозяйства» 1912) and Unfading Light («Свет Невечерний» 1917), in which he first offered his own teaching based on the combination of sophiology of Vladimir Solovyov and Pavel Florensky, the later works of Schelling, and his own intuition-based ideas about the Orthodox Christian faith.
In 1918, having returned to the Orthodox Church, he was ordained to the priesthood, and rose to prominence in church circles.
He took part in the All-Russia Sobor of the Russian Orthodox Church that elected patriarch Tikhon of Moscow.
Bulgakov rejected the October revolution and responded with On the Feast of the Gods ("На пиру богов", 1918), a book similar to the Three Talks of Vladimir Solovyov.
During the Russian Civil War he was in Crimea, where he worked in the field of philosophy.
He wrote books Philosophy of the Name ( "Философия имени", 1920) and Tragedy of Philosophy ("Трагедия философии", 1920) in which he revised his views about the relation of Philosophy to Dogmatism.
He concluded that the Christian views can be expressed only by dogmatic theology.
Thereafter his works were devoted to dogmatic theology.
On 30 December 1922 the Bolshevik government expelled some 160 prominent intellectuals on the so-called Philosophers' ship, Bulgakov, Nikolai Berdyaev, and Ivan Ilyin among them.
In May 1923 he became professor of Church Law and Theology at the school of law of the Russian Research Institute in Prague.
In 1925 he helped found St. Sergius Orthodox Theological Institute (l'Institut de Théologie Orthodoxe Saint-Serge), in Paris, France.
He was the head of this institute and Professor of Dogmatic Theology until his death from throat cancer on 12 July 1944.
His last work was devoted to the Apocalypse.
Bulgakov’s teaching on sophiology is highly controversial.
The attempt to understand it properly is hindered by the highly political controversy surrounding it in the 1930s.
By 1931 there existed three separate Russian Orthodox jurisdictions in Europe: the Russian Church Abroad/Sremski Karlovtsy Synod (ROCA or ROCOR) under Met.
Anthony (Khrapovitsky); the "Patriarchal" Church answering ultimately to Met.
Sergius I of Moscow (of which the young Vladimir Lossky was a member); and the Russian Church in Western Europe (Bulgakov’s own jurisdiction as well as the church of Georges Florovsky) under Met.
Evlogy (Georgievsky) that was under the jurisdiction of the Patriarch of Constantinople—though in 1934, Met.
Evlogy was privately reconciled to Met.
Anthony, and in 1935 he went to Karlovtsy for a special reunion conference, at which time the schism between him and ROCOR was healed In 1936, Met.
Evlogy again cut his ties with ROCOR, quite possibly because of the controversy over Sophianism.
In the Decree on Sophianism, an ukaz of 24 August 1935 of Met.
Sergius, Bulgakov’s teaching on ‘Sophia’ was described as ‘alien’ to the Orthodox faith.
This ukaz was largely based on the epistolary reports of Alexis Stavrovsky.
He was also the president of the Brotherhood of St Photius (Alexis Stavrovskii was president; Vladimir Lossky, the vice-president, and Evgraf Kovalevskii, later Jean-Nectaire Kovalevsky of Saint-Denis, were also among the 12-15 young laymen who made up its numbers) whose members had left the jurisdiction of Metropolitan Evlogy for that of Met.
This exodus was in reaction to Met.
Sergius having removed, on 10 June 1930, Met.
Evlogy as the head of the Russian Orthodox Church in Western Europe (since Metropolitan Evlogy had continually refused to agree to the 30 June 1927 Declaration of Loyalty to the Soviet government) and named Elevthery as his replacement.
In late 1935, Metropolitan Evlogy appointed a commission to look into the charges of heresy levelled against Bulgakov.
The commission quickly broke into factions.
In June 1936 the majority report (prepared by Vasilii Zenkovskii, Anton Kartashov and others) rejected the charge of heresy but had serious objections about Sophiology.
The minority report of 6 July 1936 was prepared by Fr Sergei Chetverikov and signed by Fr Georges Florovsky, who despite his personal respect for Fr.
Sergius, remained an ardent critic of Sophianism for the remainder of his life.
Meanwhile, the Church Abroad formally accused Bulgakov of heresy in 1935.
The 1935 decision of the Church Abroad was based on Archbishop Seraphim (Sobolev) of Boguchar’s Novoe uchenie o Sofii (Sofia, 1935), as well as on the arguments of St. John (Maximovitch).
St. John, in his book The Orthodox Veneration of the Mother of God, discusses at length why the sophianism of Sergius Bulgakov is heresy, specifically one as destructive as Nestorianism.
Speaking of those who attempt to deify the Theotokos, he wrote: Bulgakov responded to the heresy accusation in his Dokladnaia zapiska Mitropolitu Evlogiiu prof. prot.
Archbishop Seraphim then rebutted Bulgakov in his Zashchita sofianskoi eresi (Sofia, 1937).
No final report was prepared on the sophiology controversy by the commission set up by Bulgakov’s own jurisdiction.
However, Metropolitan Evlogy convoked a bishop’s conference on 26–29 November 1937 to bring closure to the matter.
The bishops in their statement were working from reports by Archimandrite Cassian (Bezobrazov) and Chetverikov and they concluded that the accusations of heresy against Bulgakov were unfounded but that his theological opinions showed serious flaws and needed correction.
Bulgakov in some respects sympathized with the doctrine of universal reconciliation, with the reservation that the continuing punishment of the immortal souls of the wicked in hell may be unending since human free choice can never be destroyed.
There is conflict in the studies regarding how conservative Bulgakov was.
A classmate of Bulgakov's said he had been called a "jingoistic monarchist" and that he did not attend discussion groups.
Together with Petr Struve, Bulgakov founded the illegal liberal Union of Liberation (which later emеrged as the Constitutional Democratic (Kadet) Party, the largest party in Russia between 1906–1907), and was one of the key persons in the journal Liberation (1902–1905).
Because of the circle's secularism, which conflicted with Bulgakov's religious views, he left the society to join the liberal nationalist and socio-Christian Union of Christian Politics.
When that circle was dissolved Bulgakov was more active in the Orthodoxy, so his leanings became liberal conservative.
James Peggs (1793-1850), along with William Bampton, was the pioneer English General Baptists missionary to Cuttack, then-capital city of Orissa, to evangelize Odia people(present Odia people).
As a pamphleteer, he extensively circulated the Pilgrim tax levied on Idolaters going on pilgrimages and horrible practice of Sati in then-Bengal, soliciting the notice of Britishers justifying the Colonialism and Evangelism among the heathens—not Christians nor Jews.
James Peggs, a student of G.B.
Academy at Wisbeach, offered himself to the General Baptist Missionary Society, for missionary service in 1820.
With delay in prior designed plans to travel India for missionary service along with William Ward, one of the Serampore Trio, he moved to London in 1820 and obtained acquaintance with British system of education along with Mrs. Bampton, while Bampton acquired some knowledge in Medicine.
He was ordained on 15 May 1821 at Loughborough along with Bampton, attended by William Ward too in the service, and sailed to India on 29 May 1821 along with Ward, Bampton, fellow-missionary, and their wives.
Peggs, Bampton, and their wives reached Serampore on 15 November 1821 via Madras(present Chennai).
They embarked at Calcutta(present Kolkata) and arrived at mission station at Cuttack on 12 February 1822—With restrictions on missionary work removed in India in 1813, the first batch of Baptist missionaries arrived in Orissa on 12 February 1822..
Prior to, departing Calcutta, they received religious tracts, thousands of copies of gospel, epistles, and considerable copies of the sacred writings for distribution among the natives as part of evangelism—These are printed at Serampore mission printing press, under the guidance of Serampore Trio.
Peggs, soon after the arrival to mission station at Cuttack made excursion to the surrounding areas of Cuttack for few days to get acquainted with area.
While travelling, they distributed books, tracts and scriptures.
He made journeys to the surrounding areas of Cuttack along with fellow missionaries to establish four village schools, within vicinity of 50 miles of mission station.
They initially endeavoured to establish schools under the charge of masters, till Christian teachers can be obtained through conversion or baptizing.
On 1 June 1822, he and Bampton started a vernacular school at Cuttack to impart elementary knowledge of Christian theology through the medium of native Odia language.
Between June 1822 and December 1833, fifteen such schools were established by General Baptists Missionary Society, out of which three were in close proximity to Cuttack mission station.
By 1844, four village schools were established by Peggs and Charles Lacey around Cuttack.
In October 1823, the first Anglo-Indian vernacular school was opened by the Baptist mision at Cuttack.
In a letter to a friend on 5 October 1822, Peggs writes as: Initially, William Bampton and Peggs worked at Cuttack mission station; later, in 1823, Bampton and his wife left to Puri to start a new mission station over there, while Peggs and his wife continued to work at Cuttack.
Later, Peggs along with fellow missionaries like Charles Lacey made several visits to Puri station where Bampton was working for evangelism activities.
He went back to England on 18 May 1825 due to sickness, but kept on speaking on behalf of East India Company and Missionaries, the need to evangelize the Oriya speaking people on name of raising their standard of living and bring them out of superstitions and blind beliefs.
After he left Cuttack, Charles Lacey took over his activities at the mission station and kept himself in constant touch with Peggs passing over the day-to-day affairs.
On June 24, 1806, Claudius Buchanan, Vice-Provost of the College of Fort William, having visited Oriya speaking tracts, dreamt and foresaw to turn the entire land of Oriya-speaking districts into Christ land; accordingly, after returning to England, he influenced the public opinion in favour of organised missionary activity in Orissa.
East India Company brought all the tracts of Oriya districts under its control by 1822.
Around the same time, William Bampton and James Peggs were sent to Orissa with the specific purpose of spreading Christianity among the Oriyas.
Prior to that, by 1813, the British parliament through legislation, had allowed the missionaries to undertake educational activity in Company territory.
As a result, the missionary societies formed in Britain sent their representatives to various parts of India—after William Bampton in 1822, Charles Lacey came to Orissa in 1823, Amos Sutton in 1825, and Nois and Jeremiah Phillips in 1835.
The evangelical movement in Britain, by the end of 1700, argued that one's commitment to Christ should be reflected in action, primarily to proselytize or seek converts among heathen and abolish slavery in the British empire.
Initially, English East India Company had prohibited Christian missionaries from living within their territories and seeking Indian converts in order to prevent unrest or opposition to the Company's trade and political control.
In 1813, when the British parliament was considering the renewal of the charter that authorized Company's trade and political control in India, Members of Parliament who were evangelical Christians, especially Methodists and Baptists, induced[forced] the Company to permit missionaries to settle in their territory.
Once in India, Protestant missionaries[denominations and groups], namely, General Baptists Mission Society; American Free Will Baptists; Particular Baptist Missionary Society; Evangelical Missionary Society; and German Evangelical Lutheran Missionaries; and alike, criticized native religious practices such as idolatry, and social customs such as early marriage and sati, especially in Bengal and Orissa, as superstitious and barbaric.
The first activities of the missionary, like starting a chapel at Cuttack, evoked little response and appreciation from the Hindus.
Among the important contributions of the Christian missionaries in Orissa was the spread of modern education.
The missionaries, in fact, laid the foundation and were the pioneers of present modern education in Orissa.
Missionaries considered education "as auxiliary to preaching" .
Their aim was to evangelize the entire country and they believed that by the spread of education, superstitions, beliefs, blind faiths, idolatry could be erased from native mind and thereof the circulation of sacred scriptures would be feasible.
Indirectly, took education as a tool for gradual destruction of Hinduism and replace it with Christian religion.
Missionaries like Peggs were sent to Orissa to undertake educational activity in East India Company territory and also to spread Christianity among the Odias.
As part of evangelism and conversion of Odia people, he and William Bampton distributed a thousand copies of Gospel translated into the Odia language who gather at the annual gathering of Juggernaut car-festival in 1823.
He published several pamphlets on the miseries of Sati, Pilgrim Tax, Ghaut Murder, Infanticide, and Slavery.
Peggs, lately returned from Orissa, attended the Annual Meeting of the Baptist Missionary Society, held at Great Queen Street Chapel, on 22 June to give the following appalling view at Juggernaut: While in England, having returned from Orissa, James Peggs published the book India’s Cries to British Humanity, Relative to Infanticide, British Connection with Idolatry, Ghau Murders, Suttee, Slavery, and Colonization in India in 1832, when British parliament was reviewing the charter of the Company.
He also sought to induce Parliament to give firm instructions to the Company to exert greater control over Hindu social customs and religious practices that he considered evil and barbaric.
Peggs also claimed that "self-immolation" continued among Hindu widows, and that the Company must take more vigorous measures to enforce the prohibition of sati.
The image (Burning a Hindoo widow), the first page of Pegg's compendium of sources and commentary on "Suttees" [Sati] in India’s Cries to British Humanity, Relative to Infanticide, British Connection with Idolatry, Ghau Murders, Suttee, Slavery, and Colonization in India, was frequently reproduced again and again as ritual of sati, to influence Britons and whereby British parliament to garner support for enforcing prohibition of sati as a ladder for extending Charter extension for Company's reign and also Missionaries Translational activism.
Missionary translation was divided into two categories: one, secular texts—translated texts of Indian literature, textbooks for school curricula, government regulations and circulars; two, religious texts—translations of English and Bengali tracts, Christian literary allegories, and the translation of gospel and Bible.
James Peggs initially, Amos Sutton and others later, started their education mission by writing secular texts such as dictionaries and grammars—the volume of writing was so large that it necessitated a separate printing press at Cuttack in 1837; however, prior to Cuttack printing press, translation activities were performed and published from Serampore Mission press.
Missionaries were installed by East India Company as mediators between Company administrators and native Oriyas.
Over the period, missionaries instead of becoming a mediator between two languages and cultures, assumed and become an instrument of hegemony between the State and Church; partly, because of using incompetent translators, lack of adequate training, or using Bengali as intermediary language for translation into Odia language—finally, under the guise of Secular texts and School textbooks, the missionaries were able to spread their sphere of activism – to the extent of using them as the tools of warfare against the ignorants and native heathens, including success in conversion of heathens to some extent -, undermining the Company administration's secular character.
Ronald F. Inglehart (born September 5, 1934) is a political scientist at the University of Michigan.
He is director of the World Values Survey, a global network of social scientists who have carried out representative national surveys of the publics of over 80 societies on all six inhabited continents, containing 90 percent of the world's population.
The first wave of surveys for this project was carried out in 1981 and the latest wave will be completed in 2014.
Since 2010 Inglehart has also been co-director of the Laboratory for Comparative Social Research at the National Research University - Higher School of Economics  in Moscow and St Petersburg.
This laboratory has carried out surveys in Russia and eight ex-Soviet countries and is training Ph.D.-level students in quantitative cross-national research methods.
In the seventies Inglehart began developing an influential theory of Generational Replacement causing intergenerational value change from materialist to post-materialist values that helped shape the Eurobarometer Surveys, the World Values Surveys and other cross-national survey projects.
Building on this work, he subsequently developed a revised version of Modernization theory, Evolutionary Modernization Theory, which argues that economic development, welfare state institutions and the long peace between major powers since 1945, are reshaping human motivations in ways that have important implications concerning gender roles, sexual norms, the role of religion, economic behavior and the spread of democracy.
Ronald Inglehart's numerous writings have become extremely influential, with translations published in German, Italian, Spanish, French, Swedish, Brazilian Portuguese, Russian, Polish, Croatian, Japanese, Chinese, Vietnamese, Korean, Persian, Urdu and Indonesian.
Brief descriptions of some of his most influential works include: In The Silent Revolution (1977) Inglehart discovered a major intergenerational shift in the values of the populations of advanced industrial societies.
In his 1989 book Culture Shift in Advanced Industrial Society Inglehart uses a large body of time-series survey data from twenty-six nations gathered from 1970 through 1988 to analyze the cultural changes that are occurring as younger generations gradually replace older ones in the adult population.
These changes have far-reaching political implications, and they seem to be transforming the economic growth rates of societies and the kind of economic development that is pursued.
Economic, technological, and sociopolitical changes have been changing the cultures of advanced industrial societies during the past several decades.
Inglehart examines changes in religious beliefs, work motivation, political conflict, attitudes toward children and families, and attitudes toward divorce, abortion, and homosexuality.
Culture Shift in Advanced Industrial Society (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1990).
Economic, technological, and sociopolitical changes have been transforming the cultures of advanced industrial societies in profoundly important ways during the past few decades.
This ambitious work examines changes in religious beliefs, in motives for work, in the issues that give rise to political conflict, in the importance people attach to having children and families, and in attitudes toward divorce, abortion, and homosexuality.
Ronald Inglehart's earlier book, The Silent Revolution (Princeton, 1977), broke new ground by discovering a major intergenerational shift in the values of the populations of advanced industrial societies.
This new volume demonstrates that this value shift is part of a much broader process of cultural change that is gradually transforming political, economic, and social life in these societies.
Inglehart uses a massive body of time-series survey data from twenty-six nations, gathered from 1970 through 1988, to analyze the cultural changes that are occurring as younger generations gradually replace older ones in the adult population.
These changes have far-reaching political implications, and they seem to be transforming the economic growth rates of societies and the kind of economic development that is pursued.
In Modernization and Postmodernization (1997) Inglehart argued that economic development, cultural change, and political change go together in coherent and, to some extent, predictable patterns.
Inglehart theorised that industrialization leads to related changes such as mass mobilization and diminishing differences in gender roles.
Changes in worldviews seem to reflect changes in the economic and political environment, but take place with a generational time lag.
Following industrialization, advanced industrial society leads to a basic shift in values, de-emphasizing instrumental rationality.
Postmodern values then bring new societal changes, including democratic political institutions and the decline of state socialist regimes.
Written with Pippa Norris, The Rising Tide: Gender Equality and Cultural Change Around the World (New York and Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2003) examines how the twentieth century gave rise to profound changes in traditional sex roles.
This study reveals how modernization has changed cultural attitudes towards gender equality and analyzes the political consequences.
It systematically compares attitudes towards gender equality worldwide, comparing almost 70 nations, ranging from rich to poor, agrarian to postindustrial.
This volume is essential reading to gain a better understanding of issues in comparative politics, public opinion, political behavior, development and sociology.
Inglehart's 2004 book with Pippa Norris, Sacred and Secular: Religion and Politics Worldwide reexamines the secularization thesis.
This book draws on a base of new evidence generated by four waves of the World Values Survey executed from 1981 to 2001 in eighty societies, covering most of the world’s major faiths.
Examining religiosity from a broader perspective and in a wider range of countries than have been done before, this book argues that religiosity persists most strongly among vulnerable populations, especially those in poorer nations and in failed states, facing personal survival-threatening risks.
Exposure to physical, societal and personal risks drives religiosity.
Conversely, a systematic erosion of traditional religious practices, values and beliefs may have occurred among the more prosperous strata in rich nations.
But at the same time, a growing proportion of the population—in both rich and poor countries—spends time thinking about the meaning and purpose of life.
It is argued that in developed countries, the established churches are losing their ability to tell people how to live their lives, but spiritual concerns, broadly defined, may be becoming increasingly important.
This book was written in collaboration with Christian Welzel.
(New York and Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005), This book demonstrates that people's basic values and beliefs are changing, in ways that affect their political, sexual, economic, and religious behavior.
These changes are roughly predictable because they can be interpreted on the basis of a revised version of modernization theory presented here.
Drawing on evidence from societies containing 85% of the world's population, the authors argue that modernization is a process of human development, in which economic development triggers cultural changes that make individual autonomy, gender equality, and democracy increasingly likely.
Inglehart's latest book, written with Pippa Norris.
In Cosmopolitan Communications: Cultural Diversity in a Globalized World (New York and Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2009) he argues that societies around the world have experienced a flood of information from diverse channels originating beyond local communities and even national borders, transmitted through the rapid expansion of cosmopolitan communications.
For more than half a century, conventional interpretations, Norris and Inglehart argue, have commonly exaggerated the potential threats arising from this process.
A series of fire-walls protect national cultures.
This book develops a new theoretical framework for understanding cosmopolitan communications and uses it to identify the conditions under which global communications are most likely to endanger cultural diversity.
The authors analyze empirical evidence from both the societal level and the individual level, examining the outlook and beliefs of people in a wide range of societies.
The study draws on evidence from the World Values Survey, covering 90 societies in all major regions worldwide from 1981 to 2007.
The conclusion considers the implications of their findings for cultural policies.
Inglehart has received the following honors: Inglehart has written more than 250 publications, including:
Religious offense means any action which offends religious sensibilities and arouses serious negative emotions in people with strong belief and which is usually associated with an orthodox response to, or correction of, sin.
At the turn of the 20th century the French sociologist Émile Durkheim considered the dichotomy between the sacred and the profane to be the central characteristic of religion.
There is also a dichotomy between religious communities and advocates of multiculturalism The vocabulary used in such debates may sometimes be either confused or confusing, and the misuse of religiously technical terms as understood in secular societies can, in itself cause religious offence.
Things that are sacred are articles of faith that are beyond question true sources of rapture for believers and followers.
Contradiction or misuse is likely to cause religious offense.
Things that are worldly such as technology or professional advice are sometimes separated from things that are holy or sacred for religious people.
Some secular activities may be considered profane and so cause religious offense, even though they may be legally permitted.
Crime is the secular homologue to religious sin.
Actions that are not religiously permitted 'inside the faith' are often prohibited within religiously dominated jurisdictions.
Profanity is not necessarily proscribed within secular jurisdictions and so legally permitted actions under common law may sometimes be considered religiously offensive to people used to religious legal structures.
Different religions are sensitive to different things in different measure, particularly such topics, as sexuality, infancy, society, and warfare.
It would be impossible to itemize all specific offences defined in all jurisdictions.
However every religion is essentially a set of beliefs conveyed from generation to generation which are, by religious definition, held to be immutable truths by that religion's believers or followers.
Anything that tends to weaken or break that chain of authoritative continuity is likely to be offensive and in some jurisdictions severely punishable.
Religious offense can be caused deliberately or by Religious intolerance, especially between specific religious beliefs regarding 'sacred truth'.
The secular belief that freedom of speech and the absence of censorship should allow religious practices or beliefs to be criticized is also a cause of conflict.
The use or misuse of religious Paraphernalia, particularly scripture may also cause offense.
The publication of a prizewinning novel by a Muslim author resulted is several deaths from rioting as well as murders and attempted murders resulting from a decree issued by a religious leader who was religiously offended by the work.
Traditionally there are three uniquely religious offenses (acts which cause religious offense): Dogma is the belief that a religion necessarily only ever expresses divine truth.
Any challenge to divine authority may be homologous to treason and attract similar serious punishment, typically the death penalty.
More recently the term is used in modern laws which aim promote religious tolerance by forbidding 'hate crime' such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006.
To allow 'outsiders' to criticize a religion or its practice might appear to serve to weaken or break the chain of intergenerational "truth-telling".
There is a fine line between secular ideas of fair comment and religious offence caused by questioning the veracity of divine revelation.
Blasphemy laws were once almost universal, and are still common in states with strong religious traditions, but such restrictions have been extinguished in most secular jurisdictions that incorporate the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UHDR).
Article 18 allows the right to refuse to kill, Article 19 of the UHDR explicitly mandates freedom of speech which permits citizens to criticize leaders in a way that some religious people may find seriously offensive.
Some Islamic traditions found this unacceptable and produced Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam Article 24 of which enshrines Sharia law as supreme, and that judicial code includes severe penalties including death for the above three offences, and also includes capital punishment for Moslems (persons who are born into Islam or swear allegiance to it) who refuse to kill when required to do so according to law.
Some extreme religious leaders in such secular societies campaign for the offence of blasphemy to be reinstated to enforce respect for their various religious beliefs above any scientific or moral challenge.
Science depends on testability, but, as relatively few advanced scientific facts are testable by non-scientists, scientific material is sometimes disseminated by reference to learned material which is assumed to be reliable (as presented in Wikipedia references) in much the same way as religionists quote 'reliable' holy scripture.
This may lead to science being taught to young people as a belief in scientific truth in much the same way as religious truths are taught, For example, when instruction or belief is based on faith in received wisdom from scholars or from textbook evidence which may be difficult or impossible for non-specialists to verify.
Religious pseudoscience includes witchcraft that is beyond traditional midwifery practices and sorcery other than traditional medicine, which insists on supernatural or magical or miraculous intervention which is contrary to scientific evidence.
For example, the Medieval Catholic faith in Europe was offended by, and persecuted, sometimes killed people whose practices were related to sexuality, particularly wise women now known as midwives.
An example of this is the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy Religious law refers to ethical and moral codes taught by religious traditions.
Examples include Canon law which is Christian church law, customary halakha' the ' Jewish law, Hindu law, and the above mentioned Sharia or Islamic law.
The origin of religion is uncertain, but it has been suggested that it evolved for the nurture of children.
Certainly much religious law is concerned with sexuality and with childcare.
The oldest known comprehensive written law dates from almost four thousand years ago.
It survives because the sixth Babylonian king, Hammurabi had it inscribed on a human-sized stone stele erected in cities throughout his kingdom.
Fragments of much earlier law codes have also survived via records dating from dawn of writing.
The subjects that the Code of Hammurabi covers are similar to modern legal codes, for it includes religious observance, social conduct and occupational duties which covers military and contractual obligations as well as the control of slavery throughout all of Babylon at that time.
Gender equality is a relatively recent philosophy, mainly evolved in the Western world during the 20th century.
Previously, sexual discrimination was socially commonplace and legally institutionalized, perhaps because distinct gender roles may have had some early human survival or historical economic value or else may have promoted social cohesion.
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights dates only from the mid-20th century (it was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 December 1948, and then incorporated into various legal systems some time after that).
However UNHDR Articles 1 and 2 had, by the early 21st century, frequently been interpreted by agnostic jurists such that any form of (non-biological) sexual discrimination has become illegal in many secular countries, while in legal jurisdictions strongly influenced by religious considerations sex discrimination may still be legally required and sometimes rigorously enforced.
Because writing is not susceptible to the sort of corruption common in verbal communication scripture can be revered and held sacred, so any criticism or inclusion in secondary works is likely to be offensive to some religionists.
A game which included two short scriptural phrases was considered offensive.
Inuit mythology has many similarities to the religions of other peoples of the North Polar region.
Inuit traditional religious practices may be very briefly summarised as a form of shamanism based on animist principles.
In some respects, Inuit mythology stretches the common conception of what the term "mythology" means.
Unlike Greek mythology, for example, at least a few people have believed in it, without interruption, from the distant past up to and including the present time.
While the dominant religious system of the Inuit today is Christianity, many Inuit do still hold to at least some element of their traditional religious beliefs.
Some see the Inuit as having adapted traditional beliefs to a greater or lesser degree to Christianity.
Others would argue that the reverse is true, the Inuit having adapted Christianity to their worldview.
Inuit traditional cosmology is not religion in the usual theological sense, and is similar to what most people think of as mythology only in that it is a narrative about the world and the place of people in it.
In the words of Inuit writer Rachel Attituq Qitsualik: Indeed, the traditional stories, rituals and taboos of the Inuit are so tied into the fearful and precautionary culture required by their harsh environment that it raises the question as to whether they qualify as beliefs at all, much less religion.
Knud Rasmussen asked his guide and friend Aua, an angakkuq (shaman), about Inuit religious beliefs among the Iglulingmiut (people of Igloolik) and was told: "We don't believe.
Living in a varied and irregular world, the Inuit traditionally did not worship anything, but they feared much.
Some authors debate the conclusions we might deduce from Aua's words, because the angakkuq was under the influence of missionaries, and later he even converted to Christianity — converted people often see the ideas in polarisation and contrasts, the authors say.
Their study also analyses beliefs of several Inuit groups, concluding (among others) that fear was not diffuse.
The Inuit believed that all things have a form of spirit or soul (in Inuktitut: anirniq meaning breath; plural anirniit), just like humans.
These spirits are held to persist after death — a common belief present in practically all human societies.
However, the belief in the pervasiveness of spirits — the root of Inuit myth structure — has consequences.
According to a customary Inuit saying "The great peril of our existence lies in the fact that our diet consists entirely of souls."
By believing that all things have souls like those of humans, killing an animal is little different from killing a person.
Once the anirniq of the dead animal or human is liberated, it is free to take revenge.
The spirit of the dead can only be placated by obedience to custom, avoiding taboos, and performing the right rituals.
The harshness and randomness of life in the Arctic ensured that Inuit lived constantly in fear of unseen forces.
A run of bad luck could end an entire community and begging potentially angry and vengeful but unseen powers for the necessities of day-to-day survival is a common consequence of a precarious existence.
For the Inuit, to offend an anirniq was to risk extinction.
The principal role of the angakkuq in Inuit society was to advise and remind people of the rituals and taboos they needed to obey to placate the spirits, since he was held to be able to see and contact them.
The anirniit are seen to be a part of the sila — the sky or air around them — and are merely borrowed from it.
Although each person's anirniq is individual, shaped by the life and body it inhabits, at the same time it is part of a larger whole.
This enabled Inuit to borrow the powers or characteristics of an anirniq by taking its name.
Furthermore, the spirits of a single class of thing — be it sea mammals, polar bears, or plants — are in some sense held to be the same and can be invoked through a keeper or master who is connected with that class of thing.
In some cases, it is the anirniq of a human or animal who becomes a figure of respect or influence over animals things through some action, recounted in a traditional tale.
In other cases, it is a tuurngaq, as described below.
Since the arrival of Christianity among the Inuit, anirniq has become the accepted word for a soul in the Christian sense.
This is the root word for other Christian terms: anirnisiaq means angel and God is rendered as anirnialuk, the great spirit.
Some spirits are by nature unconnected to physical bodies.
These figures are called tuurngait (also tornait, tornat, tornrait, singular tuurngaq, torngak, tornrak, tarngek).
Some are helping spirits that can be called upon in times of need.
Some are evil and monstrous, responsible for bad hunts and broken tools.
They can also possess humans, as recounted in the story of Atanarjuat.
An angakkuq with good intentions can use them to heal sickness, and find animals to hunt and feed the community.
He or she can fight or exorcise bad tuurngait, or they can be held at bay by rituals; However, an angakkuq with harmful intentions can also use "tuurngait" for their own personal gain, or to attack other people and their tuurngait.
Though once Tuurngaq simply meant "killing spirit", it has, with Christianisation, taken on the meaning of demon in the Christian belief system.
The angakkuq was the shaman of a community of Inuit.
The angakkuq has largely disappeared in Christianised Inuit society, but functioned as a mediator with (or defender against) the spirits, a healer, and a counselor.
They were held to be born with their gifts and not trained, although they employed ritual ceremonies involving drumming, chanting, and dancing.
Below is an incomplete list of Inuit myth figures thought to hold power over some specific part of the Inuit world: Qalupalik is a myth/legend told by Inuit parents and elders to prevent children from wandering to the shore.
Qalupalik are human-like creatures with long hair, green skin and long finger nails that live in the sea.
They wear amautiit, in which they carry away babies and children who disobey their parents or wander off alone.
They take the children underwater, where they adopt them as their own.
Qalupaliks have a distinctive humming sound, and the elders have said you can hear the Qalupaliks humming when they are near.
Up to today the Qalupalik story is still being told in schools and books, and by parents who don’t want their children to wander off to the dangerous shore.
The myth was adapted as a 2010 stop motion animation short, Qalupalik, by Ame Papatsie.
Saumen kars or 'Tornits' are the Inuit version of the hairy man or yeti myth.
Tupilaq are avenging monsters which were invoked using Shamanic magic.
"Qallupilluit" are "troll-like" creature that come after misbehaving children.
Rituale Satanum is the first full length album by the Finnish black metal band Behexen.
Its title is a mockery derived from the religious text of the Catholic faith, Rituale Romanum.
Remastered & re-released in 2004 (with new artwork) by Dynamic Arts Records.
LP released by Faustian Distribution & Northern Heritage in June 2006.
The Kalâm-e Saranjâm ( or Serencam "The Discourse of Conclusion") is the central religious text of the Ahl-e Haqq, written in the 15th century based on the teachings of Sultan Sahak.
The Ahl-e Haqq believe the Kalâm-e Saranjâm to be the book of divine guidance and direction for mankind and consider the text in its original Kurdish Gorani dialect to be the literal word of God.
Recovering from Religion (RR) is an international non-profit organisation, that helps people who have left or are in the process of leaving religion to deal with any impacts of leaving their faith by creating support groups, providing a telephone hotline for "people in their most urgent time of need", as well as offering a range of online tools and practical resources.
It is headquartered in the heart of Kansas City, Kansas.
RR was founded in 2009 by Kansas-based atheist activist and psychologist Darrel Ray.
RR includes former Westboro Baptist Church member Nathan Phelps and former minister-turned atheist Teresa MacBain among its Board of Directors.
In December 2011 Recovering From Religion appointed Clergy Project member and former pastor Jerry DeWitt as its Executive Director.
Sarah Morehead, once an evangelical Southern Baptist, was appointed its Deputy Executive Director at the same time.
DeWitt resigned in 2012 to pursue personal projects.
Sarah Morehead was appointed Executive Director on January 1, 2013 and remained until October 25, 2015.
Dr. Darrel Ray is currently the temporary Executive Director.
In 2012, Recovering From Religion included over 100 local chapters scattered across the United States, each one meeting monthly, typically with 10 to 12 participants.
By 2013 RR announced fundraising for its Hotline Project, a toll free phone number featuring trained support agents, which was funded in a matter of weeks, as well as The Secular Therapist Project.
In 2014 RR expanded its support resources to include online classes dubbed "Recovering Your Sexuality" for individuals working through the negative impact of religion on their sexual development and identity.
RR launched The Hotline Project on the 27th of February 2015 with former pastor Teresa MacBain serving as the Director.
According to MacBain, the hotline is a peer-support call center for people struggling with issues of faith, doubt, and nonbelief.
The call agents are trained to offer support and resources without influencing the caller toward or away from any religious belief or lack of belief.
"The greatest gift we offer those who call is compassion without judgement.
Each person must walk their own path, we just want to be a 'shoulder to lean on' when needed."
remarked Ms. MacBain in a speech given at the Gateway to Reason Conference.
This service will be a free 24/7 service run by volunteers.
The Hotline Project was developed in response to the large volume of calls and e-mails that RR receives daily from people who are seeking help and support in their time of doubt, and want to leave religion, but do not know who to turn to or what to do next.
The aim of the service provided by this hotline is not to lead callers away from religion, but to provide advice and support for those who struggle with their doubts.
In an interview with The Christian Post, Sarah Morehead said: "It's not our place to do anything but encourage exploration and discovery, and to provide a solid support structure as people reconsider the role of religion in their lives".
Christian apologist William Lane Craig criticised the hotline, suggesting it should be disconnected as it is the wrong number to call.
According to him "this atheist hotline will offer nothing."
Dr Darrel Ray, as part of RR, has launched The Secular Therapist Project.
It is a website that is dedicated to connecting secular therapists with people, seeking help, who do not hold any religious beliefs.
The website was launched in April 2012.
Just over a year after the launch, in August 2013, the project had reached a key milestone - 2000 registered clients.
After publishing his books The God Virus and Sex and God, Dr Ray received numerous requests from people asking for help in finding secular therapists.
In his interview to Psychology Today magazine, Dr Ray stated that there is a real problem in America with more and more therapists graduating from the religious programs, who incorporate religion into their therapy sessions: "While no one can really know how much religion influences a given counsellor, we can say that hundreds of religious schools have developed counselling programmes in the past twenty years, many in the marriage and family counselling area.
It is hard to say, but there could be more licensable counsellors graduating from religious schools than are graduating from secular programs right now.
In any event, there are thousands of counsellors who think Jesus or other supernatural approaches are the answer".
The Ex-communications blog was created in 2014 to offer support and insight for those people who are either in the process of leaving religion, closeted atheists, or dealing with religious doubts.
The blog is written by people who have left faith and who can offer their perspective and support for those who are in doubt or are on their journey out of faith.
Nathan Phelps, son of Fred Phelps, founder of the Westborough Baptist Church, is one of the blog's regular contributors.
Other writers include Teresa MacBain and Justin Vollmar, both ex-pastors, who have left their faith and become outspoken atheists activists.
"Ex-Communications is for everyone who feels they have been negatively impacted by religion, or knows someone who has.
We want to start conversations with the questioning but still religious believer, the closeted nonbeliever desperate to know they are not alone in their doubts and growing secularism, and even the life-long nonbeliever looking to understand and support their friends or family as they struggle with the fallout from faith.
The writers on this blog come from all walks of life, and all versions of religious belief systems".
A martyr (Greek: μάρτυς, mártys, "witness"; stem μάρτυρ-, mártyr-) is somebody who suffers persecution and/or death for advocating, renouncing, refusing to renounce, and/or refusing to advocate a belief or cause as demanded by an external party.
This refusal to comply with the presented demands results in the punishment or execution of the martyr by the oppressor.
Originally applied only to those who suffered for their religious beliefs, it is now often used also used for people imprisoned or executed for espousing a political cause.
Most martyrs are considered holy or are respected by their followers, becoming symbols of exceptional leadership and heroism in the face of difficult circumstances.
Martyrs play significant roles in religions.
Similarly, martyrs have had notable effects in secular life, including specific figures such as Socrates, as well as in politics and Chinese culture.
In its original meaning, the word martyr, meaning witness, was used in the secular sphere as well as in the New Testament of the Bible.
The process of bearing witness was not intended to lead to the death of the witness, although it is known from ancient writers (e.g.
Josephus) and from the New Testament that witnesses often died for their testimonies.
During the early Christian centuries, the term acquired the extended meaning of a believer who is called to witness for their religious belief, and on account of this witness, endures suffering and/or death.
The term, in this later sense, entered the English language as a loanword.
The death of a martyr or the value attributed to it is called martyrdom.
The early Christians who first began to use the term martyr in its new sense saw Jesus as the first and greatest martyr, on account of his crucifixion.
The early Christians appear to have seen Jesus as the archetypal martyr.
The word martyr is used in English to describe a wide variety of people.
However, the following table presents a general outline of common features present in stereotypical martyrdoms.
Despite the promotion of ahimsa (non-violence) within Sanatana Dharma, there is also the concept of righteous duty (dharma), where violence is used as a last resort to resolution after all other means have failed.
Examples of this are found in the Mahabharata.
Upon completion of their exile, the Pandavas were refused the return of their portion of the kingdom by their cousin Duruyodhana; and following which all means of peace talks by Krishna, Vidura and Sanjaya failed.
During the great war which commenced, even Arjuna was brought down with doubts, e.g., attachment, sorrow, fear.
This is where Krishna instructs Arjuna how to carry out his duty as a righteous warrior and fight.
Martyrdom in Judaism is one of the main examples of Kiddush Hashem, meaning "sanctification of God's name" through public dedication to Jewish practice.
Religious martyrdom is considered one of the more significant contributions of Hellenistic Judaism to Western Civilization.
1 Maccabees and 2 Maccabees recount numerous martyrdoms suffered by Jews resisting Hellenizing (adoption of Greek ideas or customs of a Hellenistic civilization) by their Seleucid overlords, being executed for such crimes as observing the Sabbath, circumcising their boys or refusing to eat pork or meat sacrificed to foreign gods.
According to W. H. C. Frend, "Judaism was itself a religion of martyrdom" and it was this "Jewish psychology of martyrdom" that inspired Christian martyrdom.
In Christianity, a martyr, in accordance with the meaning of the original Greek martys in the New Testament, is one who brings a testimony, usually written or verbal.
In particular, the testimony is that of the Christian Gospel, or more generally, the Word of God.
A Christian witness is a biblical witness whether or not death follows.
However, over time many Christian testimonies were rejected, and the witnesses put to death, and the word martyr developed its present sense.
Where death ensues, the witnesses follow the example of Jesus in offering up their lives for truth.
The concept of Jesus as a martyr has recently received greater attention.
Analyses of the Gospel passion narratives have led many scholars to conclude that they are martyrdom accounts in terms of genre and style.
Several scholars have also concluded that Paul the Apostle understood Jesus' death as a martyrdom.
In light of such conclusions, some have argued that the Christians of the first few centuries would have interpreted the crucifixion of Jesus as a martyrdom.
In the context of church history, from the time of the persecution of early Christians in the Roman Empire, it developed that a martyr was one who was killed for maintaining a religious belief, knowing that this will almost certainly result in imminent death (though without intentionally seeking death).
This definition of martyr is not specifically restricted to the Christian faith.
The first Christian witness to be killed for his testimony was Saint Stephen (whose name means "crown"), and those who suffer martyrdom are said to have been "crowned."
From the time of Constantine Christianity became the religion of the realm and there was less and less persecution.
As some wondered how then they could most closely follow Christ there was a development of desert spirituality, desert monks, self-mortification, ascetics, (Paul the Hermit, St. Anthony), following Christ by separation from the world.
This was a kind of white martyrdom, dying to oneself every day, as opposed to a red martyrdom, the giving of one's life in a violent death.
In Christianity death in sectarian persecution, can be viewed as martyrdom.
For example, there were martyrs recognised on both sides of the schism between the Roman Catholic Church and the Church of England, with two hundred and eighty Christians martyred for their faith by public burning between 1553 and 1558 by the Roman Catholic Queen Mary I in England leading to the split with Rome in 1559 and then three hundred Roman Catholics martyred by the Church authorities in England over the following hundred and fifty years in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.
Even more modern day accounts of martyrdom for Christ exist, depicted in books such as Jesus Freaks though the numbers are disputed.
There are claims that the numbers of Christians killed for their faith annually are greatly exaggerated.
Islam views a martyr as a man or woman who dies while conducting jihad, whether on or off the battlefield (see greater jihad and lesser jihad).
However, opinions in the Muslim world vary widely on whether suicide bombers can count as martyrs.
Very few Muslims believe that suicide bombing can be justified.
Martyrdom (called shahadat in Punjabi) is a fundamental concept in Sikhism and represents an important institution of the faith.
The Sikh Gurus and the Sikhs that followed them are some of the greatest examples of martyrs who fought  against Mughal tyranny and oppression, upholding the fundamentals of Sikhism, where their lives were taken during non-violent protesting or in battles.
Sikhism believes in Ibaadat se Shahadat (from love to martyrdom).
Some famous Sikh martyrs include: In the Bahá'í Faith, martyrs are those who sacrifice their lives serving humanity in the name of God.
However, Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, discouraged the literal meaning of sacrificing one's life.
Instead, he explained that martyrdom is devoting oneself to service to humanity.
Martyrdom was extensively promoted by the Tongmenghui and the Kuomintang party in modern China, revolutionaries who died fighting against the Qing dynasty in the Xinhai Revolution and throughout the Republic of China period, furthering the cause of the revolution, were recognized as martyrs.
The cult of the revolutionary martyr was also strongly developed in Vietnam and North Korea.
A political martyr is someone who suffers persecution and/or death for advocating, renouncing, refusing to renounce, and/or refusing to advocate a political belief or cause.
Richard Ian Cheetham (born 18 August 1955) is a Church of England bishop and former teacher.
Since 2002, he has been the current Anglican area Bishop of Kingston.
He was educated at Kingston Grammar School.
He studied physics and philosophy at Corpus Christi College, Oxford, graduating Bachelor of Arts (BA).
He remained at the University of Oxford to study for a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE).
Having qualified, he taught science at a comprehensive school in Richmond, North Yorkshire, from 1978 to 1980.
He then moved to Eton College, Windsor, where he was Assistant Physics Master from 1980 to 1983.
After five years teaching, he left the profession to become an investment analyst.
Cheetham left his career and in 1985 began preparation for ordination at Ripon College Cuddesdon.
Having completed a Certificate in Theology and he was ordained a deacon in the Church of England in 1987.
The following year, in 1988, he was ordained a priest.
He began his career as curate at Holy Cross, Fenham, Newcastle upon Tyne and from 1990 until 1999 he was vicar of St Augustine of Canterbury's Church, Luton and additionally (from 1995) Rural Dean of the area.
From 1999 to 2002 he was Archdeacon of St Albans.
He was enthroned as area Bishop of Kingston in Southwark Cathedral on 27 October 2002.
As the senior suffragan bishop in post at the time of Tom Butler's retirement on 5 March 2010, Cheetham served as Acting Bishop of Southwark from then until his fellow suffragan Christopher Chessun became Bishop of Southwark on 17 January 2011.
In 1999 Cheetham completed his PhD as an external student of King's College London.
His thesis was entitled, 'The nature and status of religious belief in contemporary Britain (with particular reference to the concept of 'truth') as reflected by acts of collective worship in a sample of Luton schools since the 1988 Education Reform Act'.
A book, Collective Worship: issues and opportunities, followed in 2004.
He became an Honorary Research Fellow of King's College London in 2011.
Cheetham is also a keen sportsman.
Cheetham is Chair of the Southwark Diocesan Board of Education, Anglican President of the Christian Muslim Forum, Patron of the Fircroft Trust, the Curriculum for Cohesion and Kingston Bereavement Service.
Until 2012 he was a member of the Roehampton University Council.
He is President of the YMCA London South West who have a large multi-function building in Surbiton and became Chair of the British Regional Committee of St. George's College, Jerusalem, in May 2013.
Totenpass (plural Totenpässe) is a German term sometimes used for inscribed tablets or metal leaves found in burials primarily of those presumed to be initiates into Orphic, Dionysiac, and some ancient Egyptian and Semitic religions.
The term may be understood in English as a “passport for the dead.” The so-called Orphic gold tablets are perhaps the best-known example.
Totenpässe are placed on or near the body as a phylactery, or rolled and inserted into a capsule often worn around the neck as an amulet.
The inscription instructs the initiate on how to navigate the afterlife, including directions for avoiding hazards in the landscape of the dead and formulaic responses to the underworld judges.
The Getty Museum owns an outstanding example of a 4th-century B.C.
Orphic prayer sheet from Thessaly, a gold-leaf rectangle measuring about 1 by 1½ inches (2.54 by 3.81&nbsp;cm).
The burial site of a woman also in Thessaly and dating to the late 4th century B.C.
yielded a pair of Totenpässe in the form of lamellae (Latin, “thin metal sheets,” singular lamella).
Although the term “leaf” to describe metal foil is a modern metaphorical usage, these lamellae were in this case cut in the shape of cordate leaves probably meant to represent ivy; most Totenpässe of this type are rectangular.
The Greek lettering is not inscribed in regular lines as it is on the rectangular tablets, but rambles to fit the shape.
The leaves are paper-thin and small, one measuring 40 by 31&nbsp;mm (about 1½ by 1¼ inches) and the other 35 by 30&nbsp;mm.
They had been arranged symmetrically on the woman's chest, with her lips sealed by a gold danake, or "Charon's obol," the coin that pays the ferryman of the dead for passage; this particular coin depicted the head of a Gorgon.
Also placed in the tomb was a terracotta figurine of a maenad, one of the ecstatic women in the retinue of Dionysus.
Although the meandering and fragile text poses difficulties, the inscriptions appear to speak of the unity of life and death and of rebirth, possibly in divine form.
The deceased is supposed to stand before Persephone, Queen of the Dead, and assert that “I have been released by Bacchios himself.” Günther Zuntz made the most complete survey of gold tablets discovered up to 1971 (at Thurii, Crete, and elsewhere), categorizing them into three groups that have become the typological standard.
Zuntz presented transcribed text coupled with a reconstruction, and interpreted their religious foundation as Pythagorean rather than Orphic.
Philologist Richard Janko proposed that Group B from Zuntz's collection derived from a single archetype, for which he offered a hypothetical Greek text and the following English translation while attempting, he emphasized, not to rely on preconceptions about underlying theology: The most widely available source that discusses the Orphic gold tablets is the classic (if superseded in some aspects) Orpheus and Greek Religion by W. K. C. Guthrie.
Since the 1990s, the usefulness of the term "Orphic" has been questioned by scholars, as has the unity of religious belief underlying the gold tablets.
More recently the association of the tablets with Orphism has been defended.
Totenpässe have also been found in tombs from Palestine dating from the 2nd century BC and later.
These tiny gold sheets employ a formulaic consolation that appears regularly on funerary steles in the area: , (here the name of the deceased is inserted), ("Take courage, [name], no one is immortal).
In one instance, the inscribed tablet was shaped like a funerary headband, with holes to bind it around the forehead.
The rule of faith ( ) or analogy of faith (analogia fidei) is a phrase rooted in the Apostle Paul's admonition to the Christians in Rome in the Epistle to the Romans , which says, "We have different gifts, according to the grace given us.
If a man's gift is prophesying, let him use it in proportion to his faith."
(NIV, 1984) The last phrase, "in proportion to his faith" is in Greek κατὰ ἀναλογίαν τῆς πίστεως ("analogy of faith").
In Romans 12:6 this refers to one of three possible ideas: the body of Christian teachings, the person's belief and response to the grace of God, or to the type of faith that can move mountains.
This phrase in Romans 12 becomes the root for later usage of the term by such Early Christian writers as Tertullian.
Tertullian links it to the core set of Christian teachings, i.e.
: The rule of faith is the name given to the ultimate authority or standard in religious belief, such as the Word of God (Dei verbum) as contained in Sacred Scripture and Divine-Apostolic Tradition, as among Catholics; theoria, as among the Eastern Orthodox; the Bible alone doctrine, as among some Protestants; the Wesleyan Quadrilateral of faith, which held that Sacred Scripture, tradition, reason, and experience, as among other Protestants; and reason alone, as among Rationalist philosophers.
As a standard for adherence to orthodoxy, rule of faith originally referred to the Old Roman Symbol, which was an earlier and shorter version of the Apostles' Creed and other later statements of faith.
As a historical standard for adherence to orthodoxy, rule of faith may also refer to other statements of faith including the Nicene Creed, Athanasian Creed, Augsburg Confession, Articles of Dort, Westminster Confession and others, the inner light of the spirit, as among mystics.
The word "rule" actually only shows up once in the Christian New Testament at Galatians 6:16 in the following passage: Paul is using the word in a fairly occasional sense here, hence follow this rule.
As noted, some 120 years after Paul, Tertullian uses the phrase "rule of faith" in On Prescription Against Heretics.
Although the term "rule of faith" is not used in them, passages in Irenaeus's Against Heresies such as Book 1.1.1, or Book 3.2.2 are examples of the concept, both describing the Christian fundamental beliefs and also emphasizing the importance of being united to apostolic teachings versus all others.
In Christian theology, it is a principle which evaluates religious life and theological opinions by testing them for consistency against what has been firmly believed.
The original rule of faith in the Early Christian Church as Irenaeus knew it, included: In the Roman Catholic Church, the Bible and Sacred Tradition (that is, things believed to have been taught by Jesus and the apostles that were not recorded in the Bible but were transmitted through the church) are considered a rule for all believers for judging faith and practice.
In conservative Protestantism Romans 12:6 is viewed as the biblical reference for the term "analogy of the faith" (i.e., αναλογἰα τῆς πἰστεως).
The Bible alone is considered the word of God and the only infallible standard for judging faith and practice; hence, for conservative Protestantism, the analogy of the faith is equivalent to the analogy of scripture &ndash; that is, opinions are tested for their consistency with scripture, and scripture is interpreted by the Holy Spirit speaking in scripture (compare sola scriptura).
The analogy of faith, which was advanced by St. Augustine, is sometimes contrasted with the analogy of being (Latin: analogia entis), which, according to St. Thomas Aquinas, allows one to know God through analogy with his creation.
The Samaritan Institute is a non-profit organization based in Denver, Colorado which manages an international network of faith-based counseling centers (Samaritan Centers).
Counselors and mental health professionals in the Samaritan program receive theological training in addition to typical licensing in psychology, psychiatry and counseling, enabling an approach which combinines "mind, body, spirit and community."
Services offered include outpatient counseling, wellness programs, and consultation and training for clergy and other professionals.
Founded in Elkhart, Indiana in 1972 by a physician, two parish ministers and a seminary professor, the Samaritan philosophy sought to emphasize the unity of mind, body, spirit and community in counseling through the collaboration of clergy, therapists and physicians.
The program first formed as a part of First Presbyterian Church of Elkhart as part of the church's counseling center.
Following the expansion of the Samaritan name and model to other churches, in 1979, the Samaritan Institute was formed as a non-profit corporation seeking to unite and develop existing and future counseling centers.
In anticipation of continued growth, in 1983, the Institute relocated its headquarters to Denver, Colorado, where it could better manage its nationwide network.
Today, the Samaritan Institute and its Centers are one of the largest national providers of faith-based counseling.
Nearly five hundred Samaritan Center offices exist in 389 cities throughout the United States and Japan.
Samaritan Centers, which are the independently run affiliates of the Samaritan Institute, use facilities provided by sponsor churches — about 4,000 congregations of 26 denominations support the Samaritan program.
The model is cost-effective in practice and is capable of offering counseling at lower rates than many other programs.
Annually, Samaritan Centers donate more than $20,000,000 in subsidized counseling to individuals in need of assistance.
The Institute is a 501(c)(3) organization, governed by a board of directors in consultation with a national council of Center executive directors.
R.J. Ross, one of the original founders of the Samaritan program, serves as president.
As a faith-based program, counselors and professionals in the Samaritan program represent various disciplines, including psychology, clinical social work, marriage and family therapy, pastoral counseling and psychiatry.
In addition, counselors are trained in theology and are better able to address the religious perspectives of clients, incorporating them into the therapeutic process.
Declaration of any particular religious belief is not a requirement for treatment, however, and counselors do not impose personal theological beliefs upon counselees, but instead work within a spiritual context when appropriate.
In addition, local physicians and ministers work in collaboration with therapists to best serve a client's varying needs.
The Samaritan program has been acknowledged by the American Medical Association, the American Association of Pastoral Counselors, the President's Commission on Mental Health, and a number of major religious denominations.
The Samaritan Institute sponsored the Ethics in Business Awards program, which is conducted by Samaritan Centers worldwide.
The Awards are to honor community leaders, businesses, and non-profit organizations which promote social responsibility, civic improvement, environmental concerns or ethical conduct.
Charles Wagner (3 January 1852 Wibersville, Alsace – 12 May 1918) was a French reformed pastor whose inspirational writings were influential in shaping the reformed theology of his time.
Wagner was born in Vibersviller, Moselle, where his father was the pastor of the Lutheran Church.
At the age of 14, he was sent to study in Paris and graduated from the Sorbonne in 1869 with a B.A.
degree.
He then went to Strassburg for a theological degree but continued his studies in Göttingen.
Up to this time his associations had been with the Lutheran Church but in 1878, he left Germany and began ministerial service in connection with the liberal wing of the French Protestant Church.
He was the pastor of a small parish in Remiremont, Vosges until 1882, when he went to Paris.
With his young wife, he began Paris life in a very modest way, living in a three-room aprtment in a poor street near the Batille, working hard at the University throughout the week, and occasionally preaching on Sundays as a guest preacher.
He soon found all orthodox pulpits closed to him, however.
In response, under the auspices of the French Protestant Church, he opened a Sunday school in his Bastille neighborhood.
This was the germ of his first church and later of his new church Temple protestant du Foyer de l'Âme ("Protestant Temple of the Portal of the Soul").
The church cost the equivalent of ca.
$60, 000 of which a little less than one quarter was contributed by Americans.
His philosophy was one of Christian love without dogma, espousing a simple life and love of nature.
The publication of his book Jeunesse (“Youth”) in 1891 marked him as a leader in the ethical movement in France and his influence continually increased.
Besides serving as pastor to a large congregation, he took an active part in many philanthropic and charitable undertakings, and in this work came into cordial relations with men of all shades of religious belief.
Of his publications, The Simple Life attracted particular interest in the United States and was widely commended by religious and ethical leaders.
In 1895, Wagner and Paul Desjardins founded L'Union par l'action morale ("Union for moral action"), an oranization in which he sought to bring together in practical work devoted men among Agnostics, Roman Catholics, Protestants and Jews.
He was on the committee of the first Université populaire, known as Coopération des Idées, founded by Georges Deherme the purpose of which was to provide evening classes to educate the working man.
In the fall of 1904, Wagner visited the United States.
He was invited to preach at the White House by Theodore Roosevelt on whom The Simple Life had made a lasting impression.
Wagner made numerous addresses and gained material for his book My Impressions of America (1906).
Many of his books have been translated into English.
Most of his works are now out of print but Éditions Ampelos began to publish the principal works in 2006.
There is also Manuel de bonne vie (1905) by Mme Brandon-Salvador which is compiled from his works.
The biography Un Homme by his nephew Alfred Wautier d'Aygalliers often refers to his own diary which is now lost which contained information on Wagner's life and thought.
A recent biography, Charles Wagner et le Foyer de l’Âme by Pierre-Jean Ruff, tells the story of Charles Wagner and the Foyer de l’Âme.
L’Homme est une espérance de Dieu is an anthology of Wagner's writings selected by Anne Penesco and Geoffroy de Turckheim has been published by Van Dieren Éditeur.
John W. Loftus (born 1954) is an American author who writes about his conversion from Christianity to atheism.
Loftus earned a bachelor's degree (B.R.E.
), from Great Lakes Christian College in 1977.
He later earned two master's degrees, M.A.
and M.DiV., from Lincoln Christian University under the teaching of James D. Strauss and a Masters of Theology degree from Trinity Evangelical Divinity School.
He became ordained as a minister in the Church of Christ and taught apologetics for Great Lakes Christian College and Lincoln Christian University, as well as teaching philosophy and ethics for College of Lake County, Kellogg Community College and Trine University.
During his almost twenty years as an evangelical Christian and Christian apologist, he experienced growing doubt about the tenets of the Christian faith.
In the late 1990s he experienced a crisis of faith that led him to reject Christianity altogether.
He eventually wrote a book laying out his case against Christianity, earlier published in 2006 as Why I Rejected Christianity: A Former Apologist Explains and revised in in 2008 as Why I Became an Atheist: A Former Preacher Rejects Christianity.
In 2008 he self-published a companion book entitled, Why I Became an Atheist: Personal Reflections and Additional Arguments.
He is the editor of three anthologies of essays that attempt to debunk Christianity, The Christian Delusion: Why Faith Fails, (Amherst, NY Prometheus Books 2010) ISBN 978-1-61614-168-4, The End of Christianity (Amherst, NY Prometheus Books 2011) ISBN 978-1-61614-413-5, and Christianity Is Not Great: How Faith Fails (Amherst, NY Prometheus Books 2014).
The titles of these books mirror those of the atheist best-sellers The God Delusion by Richard Dawkins, The End of Faith by Sam Harris, and God is Not Great by Christopher Hitchens.
He is planning a 4th anthology entitled Christianity: The Failed Hypothesis echoing the title of Victor Stenger's God: The Failed Hypothesis.
In 2012 he collaborated with Christian author Randal Rauser on a book entitled God or Godless: One Atheist.
His book The Outsider Test for Faith proposes a method for evaluating religious belief from an outsider's perspective.
It is an expansion of a chapter in his earlier book Why I Became an Atheist arguing that everyone should examine their own faith from the perspective of an outsider.
He founded the website Debunking Christianity[1], a blog with many guest contributors.
"Cafeteria Christianity" is a derogatory term used by some Christians, and others, to accuse other Christian individuals or denominations of selecting which Christian doctrines they will follow, and which they will not.
The first use in print appears to be in the magazine The Month in 1992; however, a related term, cafeteria Catholicism, had already appeared in E. Michael Jones's Fidelity Magazine in 1986.
Another early use was Richard Holloway in an interview in the Third Way in September 2001.
Cafeteria-style means picking and choosing, as if "sliding our food tray along a cafeteria's counter", referring to some Christians' making a personal selection of Christian teaching, "picking and choosing the stuff you want and discarding the rest".
The term implies that an individual's professed religious belief is actually a proxy for their personal opinions rather than an acceptance of Christian doctrine.
The selectivity implied may relate to the acceptance of Christian doctrines (such as the resurrection or the virgin birth of Jesus), or attitudes to moral and ethical issues (for example abortion, homosexuality, or idolatry) and is sometimes associated with discussions concerning the applicability of Old Testament laws to Christians and interpretation of the Sermon on the Mount.
"The idea is the moderates pick and choose the parts of the Bible they want to follow."
Cafeteria Christianity is somewhat related to latitudinarianism, the position that differences of opinion on church organization and doctrine are acceptable within a church.
As the Christian version of "cherry-picking theology", it is seen as a result of postmodern reading of texts, where the reader goes beyond analysis of what requires interpretation, adopting an approach where "anything goes".
In The Marketplace of Christianity, economists Robert Ekelund, Robert Hébert and Robert Tollison equate Cafeteria Christianity with self-generated Christianity, i.e.
the religion of many Christians which "matches their demand profile" and "may be Christian or based in other areas of thought."
They conclude that "Christian religious individualists have existed in all times."
Since the cafeteria Christian may be someone who wants "to reject the parts of scripture they find objectionable and embrace only the parts they like", the term can be used ad hominem, either to disqualify a person's omission of a Christian precept, or to invalidate their advocacy of a different precept entirely.
Equated with "Christianity Lite", it is sometimes used to deride the mass-appeal subculture of megachurches.
The related term "cafeteria Catholicism" is a pejorative term applied to Catholics who dissent from Roman Catholic moral teaching on issues such as abortion, birth control, premarital sex, masturbation or homosexuality.
The term has been in use since the issuance of Humanae Vitae, an official document that propounded the Church's opposition to the use of artificial birth control, which many Catholics quietly practice, and advocates natural family planning.
The term is less frequently applied to those who dissent from other Catholic moral teaching on issues such as social justice, capital punishment, just war, or global warming.
Conservative Catholics argue this is because these areas of Catholic teaching are less clearly dogmatically defined by the Magisterium, and therefore open to debate.
Board of Education of Kiryas Joel Village School District v. Grumet, 512 U.S. 687 (1994), was a case in which the United States Supreme Court ruled on the constitutionality of a school district created with boundaries that matched that of a religious community.
The court, in an opinion by Justice Souter, held that the creation of a school district unit of government designed to coincide with the neighborhood boundaries of a religious group constitutes an unconstitutional aid to religion.
Souter concluded that "government should not prefer one religion to another, or religion to irreligion."
"There is more than a fine line between the voluntary association that leads to a political community comprising people who share a common religious faith, and the forced separation that occurs when the government draws explicit political boundaries on the basis of peoples' faith.
In creating the district in question, New York crossed that line."
Justice Scalia, in his dissent, acknowledged that the residents of this district are Satmar Hasidic Jews, but noted of the Satmar community: <blockquote>[A]ll its residents also wear unusual dress, have unusual civic customs, and have not much to do with people who are culturally different from them ... On what basis does Justice Souter conclude that it is the theological distinctiveness rather than the cultural distinctiveness that was the basis for New York State's decision?
The normal assumption would be that it was the latter, since it was not theology but dress, language, and cultural alienation that posed the educational problem for the children.< Scalia argued that the Satmar school district aided the Satmars as a culture rather than a religion, and thus did not constitute impermissible aid to a religious group.
The majority, Scalia asserted, would "laud this humanitarian legislation if all of the distinctiveness of the students of Kiryas Joel were attributable to the fact that their parents were nonreligious commune dwellers, or American Indians, or Gypsies," and concluded that "creation of a special, one-culture school district for the benefit of those children would pose no problem.
The neutrality demanded by the Religion Clauses requires the same indulgence towards cultural characteristics that are accompanied by religious belief."
The God gene hypothesis proposes that a specific gene (VMAT2) predisposes humans towards spiritual or mystic experiences.
The idea has been postulated by geneticist Dean Hamer, the director of the Gene Structure and Regulation Unit at the U.S. National Cancer Institute, and author of the 2005 book The God Gene: How Faith is Hardwired into our Genes.
The God gene hypothesis is based on a combination of behavioral genetic, neurobiological and psychological studies.
The major arguments of the hypothesis are: (1) spirituality can be quantified by psychometric measurements; (2) the underlying tendency to spirituality is partially heritable; (3) part of this heritability can be attributed to the gene VMAT2; (4) this gene acts by altering monoamine levels; and (5) spiritual individuals are favored by natural selection because they are provided with an innate sense of optimism, the latter producing positive effects at either a physical or psychological level.
Although it is always difficult to determine the many interacting functions of a gene, VMAT2 appears to be involved in the transport of monoamine neurotransmitters across the synapses of the brain.
PZ Myers argues: "It's a pump.
A teeny-tiny pump responsible for packaging a neurotransmitter for export during brain activity.
Yes, it's important, and it may even be active and necessary during higher order processing, like religious thought.
But one thing it isn't is a 'god gene.'"
Carl Zimmer claimed that VMAT2 can be characterized as a gene that accounts for less than one percent of the variance of self-transcendence scores.
These, Zimmer says, can signify anything from belonging to the Green Party to believing in ESP.
Zimmer also points out that the God Gene theory is based on only one unpublished, unreplicated study.
However Hamer notes that the importance of the VMAT2 finding is not that it explains all spiritual or religious feelings, but rather that it points the way toward one neurobiological pathway that may be important.
John Polkinghorne, an Anglican priest, member of the Royal Society and Canon Theologian at Liverpool Cathedral, was asked for a comment on Hamer's theory by the British national daily newspaper, The Daily Telegraph.
He replied: "The idea of a God gene goes against all my personal theological convictions.
You can't cut faith down to the lowest common denominator of genetic survival.
It shows the poverty of reductionist thinking."
Walter Houston, the chaplain of Mansfield College, Oxford, and a fellow in theology, told the Telegraph: "Religious belief is not just related to a person's constitution; it's related to society, tradition, character&mdash;everything's involved.
Having a gene that could do all that seems pretty unlikely to me."
Hamer responded that the existence of such a gene would not be incompatible with the existence of a personal God: "Religious believers can point to the existence of God genes as one more sign of the creator's ingenuity&mdash;a clever way to help humans acknowledge and embrace a divine presence."
Hamer repeatedly notes in his book that, "This book is about whether God genes exist, not about whether there is a God."
Hannah Crocker (June 27, 1752, in the North end of Boston – July 11, 1829, in Roxbury, Mass) was an American essayist and one of the first advocates of women's rights in America, as well as a pioneer for women involved in Freemasonry and a spy in the American Revolution.
She was born into the illustrious Mather family of Boston, and heir to its long history of Puritan activism.
Her most important contribution was the 1818 book Observations on the Real Rights of Women in which she argued that education was crucial to the advancement of women.
This included a courageous defense of Mary Wollstonecraft, who, in Boston society, was viewed as a libertine.
Crocker's work was the first book by an American author on the rights of women.
Hannah Mather born on June 27, 1752 in the North End of Boston.
She was the daughter of Samuel Mather, a Congregationalist minister, and Hannah Hutchinson.
As a result of her fathers profession she was brought up in a religious environment and had a strong religious belief throughout her life.
Additionally, her father was an educated man who believed in the importance of educating women, which lead to her passion for women's rights.
She was extensively taught in language, history, theology, and literature, and read often.
In Reminiscences and Traditions of Boston, she recounts spying for American forces on the eve of the American Revolution as a teenager.
She married Joseph Crocker in 1779.
Joseph Crocker was a Harvard Graduate and a captain in the Revolutionary War.
With Crocker she had 10 children between 1780 and 1795.
During her marriage she became involved in Freemasonry, and worked to advance women's place in society by founding a lodge for the betterment of women on masonic values.
She also spent a lot of time writing, and became a well-known essayist and poet.
In 1812 she founded the School of Industry to help disadvantaged girls learn vocational skills and eventually become economically independent.
She died on July 11, 1829.
Hannah Mather Crocker's great-great-grandfather was Richard Mather who started the Mather Dynasty.
Richard Mather’s most famed son was Increase Mather.
Increase had an important role in stirring up the controversial event that was the Salem Witch Trials.
Increase’s son Cotton Mather also participated in the Salem Witch Trials, but he was better known for what may be the founding idea behind the theory for vaccine.
Cotton’s son Samuel also went into the church life and was the father of Hannah.
Hannah Hutchinson's brother was Thomas Hutchinson, governor of Boston.
Before her marriage, Hannah Mather Crocker spied for American forces before the American Revolution.
After raising her children, she took up a career in writing.
Some of her most famed works include: A Series of Letters on Free Masonry, North Square Creed, The School of Reform; or, Seaman's Safe Pilot to the Cape of Good Hope and Observations on the Real Rights of Women, with Their Appropriate Duties, Reminiscences and Traditions of Boston, Agreeable to Scripture, Reason and Common Sense.
In Observations on the Real Rights of Women, Crocker argued that men and women were in all ways equal.
She also founded St Anne's Lodge, an all-female lodge for learning about literature and science founded on masonic values.
A controversy in the US state of California concerning the portrayal of Hinduism in history textbooks began in 2005.
The Texas-based Vedic Foundation (VF) and the American Hindu Education Foundation (HEF), both Hindutva (Hindu nationalist) groups, complained to California's Curriculum Commission, saying the coverage in sixth grade history textbooks of Indian history and Hinduism was biased against Hinduism; points of contention included a textbook's portrayal of the caste system, the Indo-Aryan migration theory, and the status of women in Indian society.
The California Department of Education (CDE) initially sought to resolve the controversy by appointing Shiva Bajpai, Professor Emeritus at California State University Northridge, as a one-man committee to review revisions proposed by the groups.
Bajpai, who was selected by the Vedic Foundation for the task, approved nearly all the changes; while presented by the VF as an independent scholar, it later came out that he was a member of a closely affiliated organization.
Michael Witzel, Professor of Sanskrit at Harvard University, got word of the affair and organized fellow Indologists against the Hindutva campaign, sending a letter with some fifty signatories to the CBE to protest the changes of a "religious-political nature".
Witzel, Stanley Wolpert and a third Indologist then revisited the proposed changed on behalf of the State Board of Education and suggested reverting some of the approved changes.
According to the CBE, these scholars came to either an agreement or a compromise on the majority of the edits and corrections to the textbooks in 2006, with some proposed changes accepted and others rejected.
In early 2006, the Hindu American Foundation sued the State Board over matters of process; the case was settled in 2009.
The Californian Standards for Evaluating Instructional Materials for Social Content contain the guiding principles for the textbooks.
They say: "The standards will be achieved by depicting, when appropriate, the diversity of religious beliefs held in the United States and California, as well as in other societies, without displaying bias toward or prejudice against any of those beliefs or religious beliefs in general."
They also say: "No religious belief or practice may be held up to ridicule and no religious group may be portrayed as inferior.
", , and "Any explanation or description of a religious belief or practice should be presented in a manner that does not encourage or discourage belief or indoctrinate the student in any particular religious belief."
Textbooks are reviewed regularly in California, and civic organizations participate in the revision process.
Christian, Jewish and Muslim groups have done this for years, but the 2005 review was the first time Hindu groups participated.
Upon release of a draft of the textbook, Christian, Jewish, Islamic and the two Hindu groups submitted their edits in autumn 2005.
After intensive scholarly discussions, over 500 changes proposed by Jewish and Christian groups and around 100 changes proposed by Muslims were accepted by the California Department of Education (CDE) and the State Board of Education (SBE); these scholarly discussions extended to January 6, 2006.
Some 170 edits proposed by two Hindu foundations were initially accepted, supported by the reviewer, appointed by the California's Board of Education, Dr. Shiva Bajpai, Professor Emeritus of History, California State University Northridge.
However, 58 of the proposed edits by Hindu groups were challenged by various groups, including Professor Michael Witzel of Harvard University.
The challenge created a procedural and legal conflict.
According to the State Board of California, some accepted changes were: According to the State Board of California, some opposed changes were: Both the Vedic Foundation (VF) and the American Hindu Education Foundation (HEF) are ideologically aligned with the Hindutva (Hindu ultra-nationalism) movement in India, specifically the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP).
The HEF operates under the auspices of the Hindu Swayamsevak Sangh, which professes adherence to the RSS's ideological principles; the VF does not claim affiliation with other groups, but cooperates closely with the VHP.
Legal services for the textbook case were provided by the Hindu American Foundation.
California's Curriculum Commission endorsed most of the changes pushed by Hindu groups, moving the matter along to the state board of education, which usually follows its advice.
But then a strong objection to such changes arrived from a group of U.S. scholars, led by Michael Witzel, the Wales Professor of Sanskrit at Harvard University.
Witzel, along with his colleague Steve Farmer, was informed about the edits proposed by VF and HEF by a person claiming to be a graduate student of Indian origin at a California university.
Witzel wrote a letter to the California Board of Education, protesting against the changes.
He suggested that the matter be discussed publicly, and that professional advice be taken by the Board.
The letter was supported by the signatures of 47 academics in the field of Asian Studies from various countries.
Dan Golden of the Wall Street Journal described the effort of the two Hindu foundations, as similar to those by Jewish, Islamic and Christian foundations.
Each group, claims Dan Golden, vie for changes in texts for elementary and secondary schools to cast their faiths in a better light or in sensitive manner before children.
In case of Hindu groups, The Wall Street Journal article described part of the motivation and response to be: In addition to this foundation, a number of other organizations took up the matter.
The President of the Dalit Freedom Network at the time was Dr. Joseph D'Souza.
D’Souza was also the President of the All India Christian Council.The DFN website explicitly notes that "DFN partners only with All India Christian Council (AICC) members who are actively involved in the transformation and emancipation of the Dalit-Bahujan people, not with the AICC as a whole.
"[ [1] </ref> D'Souza wrote a letter to the Board of Education on behalf of the Dalit Freedom Network.
According to the Friends of South Asia (FOSA), further letters of support came from other Christian organizations like National Campaign on Dalit Human Rights, the Dalit Shakti Kendra, and the Dalit Solidarity Forum in the USA.
FOSA also writes that further Dalit groups that testified before the SBE in January and February 2006, and are on public record in California, include those with Buddhist backgrounds, such as the Ambedkar Centre for Justice and Peace, Indian Buddhist Association of America, New Republic India, as well as Californian Dalit Sikh temples such as the Guru Ravi Dass Gurdwara.
The edits proposed by the VF and HEF were also opposed by a group of organizations that included the FOSA, the Coalition against Communalism (CAC), the Federation of Tamil Sangams in North America, Non Resident Indians for a Secular and Harmonious India (NRI-SAHI), the Vaishnava Center for Enlightenment, and the Indian American Public Education Advisory Council (IPAC).
Forty-seven professional South Asian scholars from universities all over the world and some major American Departments of South Asian Studies as well as some 150 Indian American professors signed the original letter of opposition to the proposals of the two Foundations.
Seventeen members of the California Legislature wrote a letter of support for the scholars.
Soon after Witzel's intervention, Viji Sundaram, a reporter for India-West, wrote that the scholarly consensus behind Prof. Witzel's petition was likely to have influenced the Board of Education's decision to review the changes suggested by the Hindu groups.
Another reporter, Rachel McMurdie of the Milpitas Post, the largest newspaper publisher in the San Francisco Bay Area, pointed out the parentage and close links between the VF and HEF and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh as well as the Hindu Swayamsevak Sangh, the American branch of the Indian organization RSS.
After extensive further discussion of the Jewish, Christian, Muslim and Hindu edits by specialized scholars on January 6, 2006, and after several public SBE meetings, a decision was reached on February 27, 2006.
After listening to 3 hours of public comment and after receiving 1500 pages of written comment, a five-member panel of the Board adopted a recommendation of accepting the actions on the edits proposed by the staff of the California Department of Education (CDE).
The subcommittee approved some 70 changes but it rejected proposed major revisions from VF and HEF on monotheism, women's rights, the caste system and migration theories.
On March 8, 2006, the full Board agreed with the February 27 decision, voting (9 to zero, 2 abstentions) to reaffirm only the changes approved on February 27, and to overturn the rest of the changes suggested by the HEF and VF, with two exceptions: the Aryan Migration Theory would be mentioned as "disputed", and the Vedas would be referred to as sacred texts, rather than songs or poems.
Most parties expressed qualified satisfaction with the decision; however, the Hindu American Foundation (HAF), that had not participated in the revisions, threatened the board with a lawsuit.
Ruth Green, past president of the SBE, said that the ruling "represents our best efforts.
Many ideological fault lines have played out here.
These beliefs are deeply held."
A public relations firm hired by the VF and the HEF stated that, "What is at stake here is the embarrassment and humiliation that these Hindu children (in America) continue to face because of the way textbooks portray their faith and culture."
Janeshwari Devi of VF said that "The two foundations submitted about 500 proposed changes, and more than 80 percent were not approved."
This refers to the initial changes proposed by VF that envisioned the complete rewriting of chapters, which is not allowed per California procedures.
On March 10, 2006, the HAF declared it would sue.
It did so at Sacramento on March 16.
The judge denied HAF's motions for a temporary restraining order and for a preliminary injunction to stop the printing and distribution of several textbooks.
The court ultimately ruled in favour of retaining the textbooks as approved by SBE in March 2006, providing extensive discussion and justification of the most contended issues (Women's rights, Dalits, Aryan invasion, Hinduism as monotheistic religion), while also noting that the approval process adopted by the board had not sufficiently been updated to recent changes in California laws.
The California Parents for Equalization of Educational Materials (CAPEEM), a group founded specifically for the California schoolbook case after SBE's March 8 decision, filed a separate lawsuit in Federal Court in Sacramento on March 14.
The complaint was filed by Venkat Balasubramani, a Seattle attorney, who has worked in the past with public interest groups.
The Counsel for the officials of the State Board of Education (SBE) and the California Department of Education (CDE) rejected the validity of CAPEEM's claims.
The Court subsequently removed CDE and SBE as Defendants, because of existing legal rules, however, Judge Frank C. Damrell of the US District Court in the Eastern District Court of California advised CAPEEM to refile and allowed, on August 11/September 28, 2006, a reformulated case to go ahead against some individual members of SBE and CDE.
The case then proceeded with the Discovery phase, and CAPEEM requested documents from the SBE and CDE, and issued subpoenas to various persons involved in this case, including the review committee members S. Wolpert, J. Heitzman and M. Witzel.
On November 28, 2006, CAPEEM issued an extensive subpoena  to Witzel to support their law case of March 2006 against members of CBE/SBE, and followed up with a motion to compel him to deliver.
A hearing in Massachusetts District Court was held on July 3, 2007.
As per court documents (see No.
07-2286), the court granted Witzel’s motion for a protective order and denied CAPEEM’s motion to compel "because it sought documents and communications that were not relevant and, therefore, not discoverable."
On July 7, 2008, a three judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit (No.
07-2286) denied an appeal by CAPEEM and decided that "CAPEEM has not shown that the Massachusetts district court abused its discretion in denying the motion to compel."
On February 25, 2009, the California Federal Court denied the plaintiff CAPEEM motion for partial summary judgment, and partly granted and partly denied the defendant Members of the California State Board of Education's motion.
On June 2, 2009, the Court ruled that good cause having been shown, and pursuant to United States' Rule of Civil Procedures, it accepts the Plaintiff's and Defendant's Settlement and General Release Agreement.
Concurrently, the Attorney General of California reached a settlement with CAPEEM where CAPEEM received $175,000 from the California State Board of Education, and both parties agreed to release each other from all claims and both parties agreed not to appeal.Case 2:06-cv-00532-FCD-KJM,Document 220, Filed 06/02/2009, see clause 1, 3, and 6-20</ref> The California State Senate majority leader Ellen Corbett spearheaded a bill (SB 1057) in the state legislature calling for a complete overhaul of its history and social studies curriculum to accurately portray Hinduism and other religions.
The bill passed through both houses of the legislature with "unanimous support."
However it was vetoed by the Governor Jerry Brown, ostensibly because it would slow down the curriculum revision process then underway.
Corbett called it a "temporary set-back."
The British Humanist Association (BHA) is a charitable organisation which promotes Humanism and aims to represent "people who seek to live good lives without religious or superstitious beliefs" in the United Kingdom by campaigning on issues relating to humanism, secularism, and human rights.
The organisation also supports humanist and non-religious ceremonies in England and Wales, and maintains a national network of accredited celebrants for humanist funeral ceremonies, weddings, civil partnerships, and baby namings.
The current President of the BHA is Shappi Khorsandi and the Chief Executive is Andrew Copson.
The association currently has 70 affiliated regional and special interest groups and claims a total of approximately 40,000 members and supporters.
The British Humanist Association's Articles of Association sets out its aims as: The BHA also wishes to build itself as a sustainable and nationally-recognised organisation as a voice for non-religious people.
The British Humanist Association was founded in 1896 by American Stanton Coit as the Union of Ethical Societies, which brought together existing ethical societies in Britain.
In 1963 H. J. Blackham became the first Executive Director, and the society became the British Humanist Association in 1967, during the Presidency of philosopher A.J.
Ayer.
This transition followed a decade of discussions which nearly prompted a merger of the Union of Ethical Societies with the Rationalist Press Association and the South Place Ethical Society.
In 1963 the discussions went as far as creating an umbrella Humanist Association of which Harold Blackham (later to become a President of the BHA) was the Executive Director.
However, the BHA, the Rationalist Association and the South Place Ethical Society remain separate entities today and in 1967 the Union of Ethical Societies alone became the British Humanist Association.
In the 1960s the BHA campaigned on the repeal of Sunday Observance laws and the reform of the 1944 Education Act’s clauses on religion in schools.
More generally the BHA aimed to defend freedom of speech, support the elimination of world poverty and remove the privileges given to religious groups.
It was claimed in 1977 that the BHA aimed "to make humanism available and meaningful to the millions who have no alternative belief."
At this time the BHA also supported a growing number of local communities, continuing today as a network of affiliated local humanist groups.
A network of celebrants able to conduct non-religious funerals, weddings, naming ceremonies and same sex affirmations (before the law allowing gay civil partnerships) was also developed and continues today as Humanist Ceremonies.
Social concerns have persisted in the BHA’s programme.
The BHA was a co-founder of the Social Morality Council (now transmuted into the Norham Foundation), which brought together believers and unbelievers concerned with moral education and with finding agreed solutions to moral problems in society.
The BHA has been active in arguing for voluntary euthanasia and the right to obtain an abortion.
It has always sought an "open society".
The BHA claims that the rules on religious programming within the BBC constitute a "religious privilege" and reserve particular criticism for the Thought for the Day slot on Radio 4's Today programme.
In April 2009 a "breakthrough" in the BHA's campaign saw Andrew Copson invited to participate as the first humanist representative in the BBC's new Standing Conference on Religion and Belief, replacing the Central Religious Advisory Committee.
The BHA opposes faith schools because "The majority of the evidence [...] points towards their being an unfair and unpopular part of our state education system which the majority of people in Britain want them phased out."
In addition, they claim that faith schools are "exclusive, divisive and counter intuitive to social cohesion" and blame religious admissions procedures for "creating school populations that are far from representative of their local populations in religious or socio-economic terms."
While BHA is opposed to faith schools receiving any state funding whatsoever it however supports the Fair Admissions Campaign which has a more limited scope because "it furthers our aims of ending religious discrimination and segregation in state schools; and secondly because we know how important this particular topic is."
The BHA campaigns for reform of Religious Education in the UK including a reformed subject covered by the national curriculum which is inclusive of non-religious viewpoints, such as "Belief and Values Education".
They believe that "all pupils in all types of school should have the opportunity to consider philosophical and fundamental questions, and that in a pluralist society we should learn about each other’s beliefs, including humanist ones".
They also support humanist volunteers on the Standing Advisory Council on Religious Education which currently determines the Religious Education syllabus for each local authority.
Educational issues have always featured prominently in BHA campaigns activities, including efforts to abolish daily worship in schools and to reform Religious Education so that it is objective, fair and balanced and includes learning about humanism as an alternative life stance.
The BHA opposes the teaching of creationism in schools.
In September 2011, the BHA launched their "Teach evolution, not creationism" campaign, which aimed to establish statutory opposition to creationism in the UK education system.
The Department for Education amended the funding agreement to allow the withdrawal of funding for free schools that teach creationism as established scientific fact.
The BHA campaigns for a secular state, which they define as "a state where public institutions are separate from religious institutions and treat all citizens impartially regardless of their religious or non-religious beliefs."
They point to issues such as the joint role of the British monarch (both Supreme Governor of the Church of England and Head of State), the reserved places for bishops in the House of Lords, the status of the Church of England (the officially established church), and other "discriminations based on religion or belief within the system" such as those in education and Public Services.
The BHA supports the rights for those who need assistance in ending their own lives, and has lobbied parliament for a change in the law, on behalf of Tony Nicklinson and Paul Lamb, in their 'Right to Die' legal cases.
Persistent campaigns include retaining the legality of abortion as a "last resort", defending embryonic stem cell research for medical purposes, and calling for consistent and humane law on the slaughter of animals.
The BHA also campaigns on marriage laws, demanding full equality for same-sex and humanist marriage ceremonies in England and Wales.
The BHA first presented their views to the Registrar General in 2007, requested in enquiry into marriage law to the Joint Committee on Human Rights in 2009, responded to a consultation on Civil Partnerships in 2011, and in 2013 sought amendments to the same sex marriage bill to allow humanist celebrants to conduct legal marriages.
Many of its campaigns are based on free speech and human rights legislation and it has paid special attention to the Human Rights Act 1998.
In 2008, the blasphemy law was repealed, an issue over which the BHA had long-campaigned.
It has called for unification of existing anti-discrimination legislation and has contributed to the Discrimination Law Review which developed the Equality Act 2010.
On 21 October 2008, the British Humanist Association lent its official support to Guardian journalist Ariane Sherine as she launched a fundraising drive to raise money for the UK's first atheist advertising campaign, the Atheist Bus Campaign.
The campaign aimed to raise funds to place the slogan "There's probably no God.
Now stop worrying and enjoy your life" on the sides of 30 London buses for four weeks in January 2009.
Expecting to raise £5,500 over six months, the atheist author Richard Dawkins agreed to match donations up to £5,500 to make £11,000 total.
The campaign raised over £153,000, enabling a nationwide advertising campaign to be launched on 6 January 2009.
On 8 January 2009 Christian Voice announced they had made an official complaint to the Advertising Standards Authority asserting that the Atheist Bus slogan broke rules on "substantiation and truthfulness".
In total the ASA received 326 complaints about the campaign, with many claiming that the wording was offensive to the religious, however the BHA disagreed with the complaint and commented on the plausibility of the ASA making a claim as to the "probability of God's existence".
Robert Winston criticised the campaign as "arrogant".
The ASA ruled that the slogan was not in breach of advertising code.
In 2011, the British Humanist Association campaigned to get atheists, agnostics and other non-believers to tick the "no religion" box in response to the optional religion question in the 2011 census (as opposed to writing in either a joke religion like "Jedi" or ticking the religion one grew up in).
The BHA believed the question was worded in such a way as to increase the number of currently non-religious or nominally religious people who list the religion they grew up in rather than their current religious views, and thus the results would have been skewed to make the country seem more religious than it actually is.
The BHA believes that this supposed overstatement of religious belief creates a situation where "public policy in matters of religion and belief will unduly favour religious lobbies and discriminate against people who do not live their lives under religion".
Posters for the campaign which used the slogan "If you're not religious, for God's sake say so" were refused by companies owning advertising hoardings in railway stations following advice from the Advertising Standards Authority who believe the adverts had "the potential to cause widespread and serious offence".
The Census results for England and Wales showed that 14.1 million people, about a quarter of the entire population (25%), stated they had no religion at all, a rise of 6.4 million over the decade.
The BHA said the fall was "astounding", and calculated that Christians could be in a minority by 2018.
Set up in 2010, the Resolution Revolution campaign aims to "[recast] the tired old New Year resolution – so often about breaking a negative habit – as a pledge to do something positive for others".
Participation is open to all and not restricted to humanists or the non-religious.
In 2014, the BHA launched two public awareness campaigns.
The first, called "That's Humanism!
", , was an Internet-based campaign revolving around four videos on humanist responses to ethics, happiness, death, and the scientific method, as narrated by its distinguished supporter, Stephen Fry.
The videos, which were widely shared on social media, were intended to introduce non-religious people who were humanist in their outlook to the existence of a community of like-minded people living their lives on the basis of reason and empathy.
The second campaign, called "Thought for the Commute", was a London Underground campaign featuring posters depicting humanist responses from Virginia Woolf, George Eliot, Bertrand Russell and A.C. Grayling to the question "What's it all for?"
The campaign intended to be a positive introduction to Humanism for commuters, as well as to highlight the exclusion of humanist voices from BBC slots such as Thought for the Day.
After announcing that it intended to replicate it in other UK cities, the campaign moved to bus posters in Birmingham, Manchester and Liverpool for four weeks in November and December 2014, this time depicting humanist responses from Jim Al-Khalili, Jawaharlal Nehru, Natalie Haynes and Russell once again.
In April 2011 it was announced that Professor A.C. Grayling would succeed Polly Toynbee as president of the BHA in July 2011.
However, in June the BHA announced that Professor Grayling had decided not to take up that position, because of what he described as "controversy generated by activities in another area of my public life."
The BHA stated that Polly Toynbee would continue as President until a new appointment was made later in 2011; she remained President for a further 18 months until in December 2012 it was announced that physicist Jim Al-Khalili would become President in January 2013.
Humanist equivalents of otherwise religious celebrations are conducted by humanist celebrants, trained and accredited by the British Humanist Association across England, Wales and Northern Ireland, while the Humanist Society Scotland performs similar ceremonies in Scotland.
Non-religious funerals are legal within the UK; over 8,000 funerals are carried out by humanist celebrants in England and Wales each year.
Between 600 and 900 weddings and 500 baby namings per year are also conducted by BHA-accredited celebrants.
In England, Wales, and Northern Ireland, a Humanist wedding or partnership ceremony must be supplemented by a process of obtaining a civil marriage or partnership certificate through a Register Office to be legally recognised, but can be led by a Humanist celebrant.
Young Humanists is the BHA's youth wing, which launched early in 2015 with a number of events in cities across the UK.
Numerous prominent people from the worlds of science, philosophy, the arts, politics, and entertainment are publicly aligned with the British Humanist Association including Professor Brian Cox, Tim Minchin, Stephen Fry, and Philip Pullman.
The BHA is a member organisation of the International Humanist and Ethical Union, International Humanist and Ethical Youth Organisation and of the European Humanist Federation.
In September 2008, it was announced that the BHA, alongside religious organisations, teachers' unions and other human rights campaigns groups, were among the founding members of the Accord coalition.
The National Federation of Atheist, Humanist and Secular Student Societies is formally part of the BHA; it is the organisation's student section and represents the BHA alongside Young Humanists at International Humanist and Ethical Youth Organisation events.
The BHA keeps a directory of humanist groups throughout the UK which aim to encourage local campaigning, charity work, socialising and exchange ideas on a local level, and provides resources to assist the creation and running of local groups.
Some of these groups are formally partnered with the BHA, which entitles them to added staff and promotional support, while others are affiliates.
As of 2015, the number of partner groups stands at 47, with 15 affiliates.
The BHA has also sponsored philosophical debates at HowTheLightGetsIn Festival.
Bryan Appleyard has criticised both the British Humanist Association and the National Secular Society for their campaign that the Scouts' Oath of Allegiance is religious discrimination.
Similar views were expressed by Deborah Orr.
Terry Sanderson of the National Secular Society argued that the oath should be modified, as it has in the past allowed non-Christians to become Scouts, so that the non-religious can participate in Scouting without having to compromise their human rights.
The Monastery of Saint Jovan Bigorski ( ) is a Macedonian Orthodox monastery located in the western part of Macedonia, near the road connecting the towns of Debar and Gostivar.
The monastery church is dedicated to St. John the Baptist.
One of its most valuable treasures is the iconostasis, created by Petre Filipovski Garkata from the nearby village of Gari, and considered one of the finest examples of wood-carved iconostases.
According to its 1833 chronicle, the monastery was built in 1020 by Ivan I Debranin.
The Ottomans destroyed the monastery in the 16th century, but it was restored in 1743 by the monk Ilarion, who also constructed a number of cells for monks.
The archimandrite Arsenius further expanded the monastery between 1812 to 1825.
The historical record also mentions a monk Iov, recognized by some researchers as the future educator Yoakim Karchovski.
Most of the old monastery complex was destroyed by a fire in 2009, while the new sections of the complex and church were saved.
Reconstruction of the old sections began in May 2010 with the goal of restoring the buildings as closely as possible to their original style.
The monastery has a large collection of holy relics including John the Baptist, Clement of Ohrid, Lazarus of Bethany, Saint Stephen, Saint Nicholas, Saint Barbara, Paraskevi of Rome, Tryphon, Respicius, and Nympha, and part of the Holy Cross.
Another valuable monastery treasure is an icon dating from 1020 with supposedly miraculous healing power.
<gallery> Logo of Monastery St. John the Baptist - Bigorski.png|Logo of Monastery St. John the Baptist - Bigorski File:Monastery Sveti Jovan Bigorski Church.JPG|CMonastery of St. Jovan (John) Bigorski near Debar Image:Monastery Sveti Jovan Bigorski, Macedonia (15).J JPG|Look from the entrance of the monastery File:Christian religious buildings 169.J JPG|dome in Saint Jovan Bigorski Monastery Complex near Rostuša, Debar Region Image:Monastery Sveti Jovan Bigorski, Macedonia (9).J JPG|Inside the monastery File:Bigorski august 2012 (4).J JPG|Bigorski August 2012 File:Monastery Sveti Jovan Bigorski, Macedonia (4).J JPG|Monastery Sveti Jovan Bigorski File:Bigorski august 2012 (78).J JPG|Bigorski August 2012 File:Bigorski Manastir 56.J JPG|Bigorski Manastir File:Bigorski Manastir 79.J JPG|Bigorski Manastir File:Candles and Fresco at Sv.
Jovan Bigorski Monastery.jpg|Candles and Fresco at Sv.
Jovan Bigorski Monastery File:Бигорски.jpg|Bigorski manastir File:Christian religious buildings 24.j
Brugnato Cathedral ( ) is a Roman Catholic cathedral located in the old centre of the city of Brugnato, in the Val di Vara in the province of La Spezia, Italy.
The dedication is to Saint Peter, Saint Laurence and Saint Columbanus.
Once the seat of the bishops of Brugnato, it is now a co-cathedral in the Diocese of La Spezia-Sarzana-Brugnato.
According to some sources, supported by finds in the foundations, the first religious building on the site was constructed in the 7th century over a palaeochristian necropolis, the church of a monastery dependent on Bobbio Abbey, founded by and dedicated to Saint Columbanus.
It was rebuilt in the 11th-12th centuries, passed to a resident community of Benedictine monks, and became in 1133 the seat of the diocese of Brugnato (suffragan of the Archdiocese of Genoa) which had spiritual authority over the middle and upper Val di Vara.
With the arrival of the Ghibellines during the 14th century, and the consequent flight of the bishop, who took refuge in Pontremoli, the cathedral lost importance, although it remained as the church of the abbey of the Benedictine community.
In 1820 the diocese was merged into those of La Spezia and Sarzana-Luni to form a single diocese with its seat in La Spezia, leaving the abbey church with the title of "co-cathedral".
Restoration work in the 1950s brought about the rediscovery of the remains of the original Romanesque church which were the objects of study in 1994 when archaeological excavations conducted by the archaeological authorities of Liguria revealed the ancient perimeter walls, the floors and a baptismal font beneath the centre of the nave.
In 2009 the cathedral hosted the "Meeting internazionale delle comunità di San Colombano".
The groundplan is based on two asymmetrical naves separated by columns, a fairly common arrangement in the religious buildings of Lunigiana although less so in the churches of Liguria.
Above the massive columns are thick semi-circular arcades.
There are differences between the two naves: the central and larger one is covered by barrel vaulting and ends in a semicircular apse with three single-light windows; the smaller side nave to the south however has bays of groin vaulting and terminates in a square wall inside within an external curved apse.
The interior, which is very sober, with few decorative elements retains traces and sculptured fragments from the ancient primitive church, as well as some frescoes among which, on the second column on the south, is one of the 14th century depicting Saint Columbanus giving a blessing; another, discovered during the works of 1994, is on the wall of the lesser nave and shows the Presentation in the Temple, in which may be recognised, not only Jesus, Joseph, Mary and the high priest, but also Saint Francis of Assisi and Saint Laurence.
A painting by Vincenzo Comaschi, dated 1821, depicts the Virgin Mary with the Infant Jesus on her lap among angels and Saints Francis and Laurence.
Near the high altar is a polyptych showing Scenes from the life of Christ.
<gallery> Image:Brugnato-abside cattedrale.jpg|The apse with part of the campanile Image:Brugnato-IMG_0141.J JPG|Fresco of Saint Colombanus giving a blessing Image:Brugnato-IMG_0142.J JPG|Fresco of The Presentation in the Temple Image:Brugnato-cattedrale-polittico.j jpg|Polyptych of Scenes from the life of Christ </gallery>
Seisetsu Shōchō (Ch'ing-cho Cheng-ch'eng, ) (1274–1339) was a Chinese Buddhist missionary to Japan.
A disciple of Ku-lin Ch'ing-mao of the Rinzai school, Seisetsu was an adherent of the gozan movement, which subsumed religious practices to secular authority.
Seisetsu emigrated to Japan in 1326, with three disciples.
Unimpressed with the native Buddhist clergy's adherence to traditional Japanese customs, he instituted major reforms in Zen Buddhism, based on Chinese practices.
He travelled widely, visiting Kamakura and Kyoto, and was abbot of Nanzen-ji for a time.
He compiled the Daikan Shingi, a treatise on Buddhist practices and etiquette, as a guide for Japanese priests.
Seisetsu was also influential in the secular world, being a mentor of Ogasawara Sadamune.
Selo Black Crow (July 23, 1932 – March 5, 2004) was a leader of the Oglala Lakota people, and activist.
He served Paratrooper and Pathfinder during the Korean War, and the Vietnam War.
He was an award-winning rodeo rider for many years.
In 1968, Black Crow, along with Leonard Crow Dog and six other men, brought the Sun Dance back to the Lakota People.
He traveled to Washington, D.C. to meet with President Gerald Ford to gain approval for the American Indian Religious Freedom Act in 1978.
In 1980, he attended a storytelling conference at University of North Dakota.
He sued over religious practices at Bear Butte.
In January, 2000, he was one of the Traditional Elders, who occupied the Tribal Council Building on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation.
A transitional house in Minnesota is named for him.
Ruiz de Alarcón is a Spanish noble name.
The name Alarcón was first given to Ferrán Martínez de Ceballos by Alfonso VIII of Castile after the former had successfully driven the Moors from the fortress of Alarcón near Cuenca in 1177.
His son's name was Ruí de Alarcón and later, in the thirteenth century, his descendants took the name Ruíz de Alarcón to distinguish themselves from other branches of the Alarcón family.
The most famous member of the Ruiz de Alarcón family is the 17th century playwright Juan Ruiz de Alarcón.
Juan's brother Hernando Ruíz de Alarcón y Mendoza, who was a priest in Taxco, is known for having written a treatise documenting the non-Christian religious practices of the Nahua Indians of central Mexico.
There have been a number of religious controversies over the teaching of science, certain religious practices, and in the depiction of religion or religious figures in culture.
The greatest contemporary controversy involving religion and science is the teaching of evolution in schools .
This debate is most prevalent in generally conservative regions of the United States and there is little serious debate on the subject outside the United States.
The Chinese Rites controversy was a dispute within the Catholic Church from the 1630s to the early 18th century about whether Chinese folk religion rites and offerings to the emperor constituted idolatry or not.
Female genital cutting and circumcision attract controversy especially when practiced outside of the countries in which they are commonly performed.
Leonora, Guyana, originally called Plantation Leonora is situated about from Vreed-en-Hoop.
The name Leonora is Dutch coming from the time of Dutch occupation of the country.
It originated from the names of two Dutch children, a boy named Leo and a girl named Nora.
Leonora encompasses an area of about , and was once part of the Parish of St. Luke.
It stretches from Edinburgh in the east to Stewartville in the west.
It goes north to as far as the Atlantic Ocean and south as far as the conservancy.
Guyana has 10 regions, Leonora is in region three part of West Coast Demerara.
Its subdivisions are Pasture, Sea Field, Para Field, Groenveldt and Sear Spray.
The village before Leonora is Anna Catherina and the village after is Uitvlugt.
Leonora has four religious groups; Hindus, Muslims, Christians and Arya Samaj .
Each group practice their religion, and share in their religious practices without prejudice.
Around the country there is a similar pattern in the society.
The Lusheati (Lusei) tribe are one of the eleven tribes of the Mizo people, native to Mizoram in Northeast India, Chin Hills in western Myanmar and Chittagong Hill Tracts of eastern Bangladesh.
The Lushei, being one of the major tribes of northeast residing in lushai hills influenced neighbouring, smaller tribes, such as the chakma, the reang(Bru) Presently most ethnic Lushei tribe (people) are Christian.
The major Christian denominations are Baptist Church of Mizoram, Seventh-day Adventist, Roman Catholic United Pentecostal Church of International (UPCI), Salvation Army and Presbyterian.
In recent generations a small group of Mizo have claimed themselves as Jews; see Bnei Menashe.
The Lushei tribe speaks the Mizo language, originally referred to as Lushei or Lushai.
Many of the smaller tribes communicate amongst each other through their own language but usually speak Mizo with outsiders or in public.
Ali Mitayev ( ) (1881 – 1925) was a Chechen sheikh and leader of anti-Soviet movement in the 1920s.
Born in the Chechen aul Avtury, Mitayev was educated at a madrasah in Grozny and, in 1912, founded a similar school in his native village.
During the Russian Revolution of 1917 and the ensuing Russian Civil War, Mitayev was one of the most influential Sufi sheikhs in Chechnya and Ingushetia.
In 1919 he forged an alliance with the Bolsheviks against Denikin’s White forces provided the Bolsheviks would guarantee Chechen autonomy and Muslim religious practices within a Soviet system.
Mitayev himself joined the Communist party and became a member of the Chechen revkom.
Mitayev’s cooperation with the Soviets ended in 1923, when he declared a jihad to the Bolsheviks and attempted a coup.
In April 1924 he was arrested as a "counter-revolutionary", "saboteur", and "clerical bourgeois nationalist" and was accused of preparing a joint Georgian-Chechen rebellion against the Soviet rule.
He was tried in Rostov-on-Don and shot in 1927.
Clotilde (or Chrodechildis) ( 500–531) was the daughter of King Clovis I of the Franks and Queen Clotilde and the queen of the Visigothic King Amalaric.
She was born circa 500.
Clotilde married Amalric in 511, and ties between both families were initially positive.
Clotilde was a Catholic, while Amalaric and his fellow-Visigoths were Arians.
Clotilde refused to adopt her husband's religious practices and complained to her kin that she was persecuted for her faith.
Amalaric was subsequently kicked out from Narbonne.
War ensued in 531 between her brother, King Childebert I, and her husband, at Barcelona, Spain.
Amalaric was eventually defeated and killed and Clotilde returned to Francia with the Frankish army, but died on the journey and was buried at Paris.
The Episcopal Church of the Transfiguration, an Episcopal church building in Belle Plaine, Minnesota is a Carpenter Gothic style building with wooden buttresses.
Sometimes referred to as a "prairie Gothic" church, it was built in 1868 for English-speaking parishioners, but most of the rural residents at the time were German and Irish immigrants who brought their own languages and religious practices with them.
The result was a church building that struggled to attract worshipers for 80 years before it was abandoned.
It is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
Honzon ( ), also known as a Gohonzon ( or ) is a Japanese Buddhist term that most often refers a holy image or effigy, most likely the principal image of a buddha, bodhisattva, or mandala image found in either a temple or a household butsudan.
The image can be either a statue or a small scroll depicting the main image.
A statue is called Butsuzo ( ), and those are most likely crafted out of cypress wood or metal such as copper or bronze.
Depending on the sect's household, the main image may be different from other sects.
In Mikkyō practices such as in Shingon Buddhism, the term refers to a tutelary figure whose role is similar to that of the yidam in Tibetan Buddhism.
Tutelary deities in Vajrayana Buddhism, including Mikkyō, Tangmi and Tibetan Buddhism, are crucial to many religious practices.
Stanisław Grabski (April 5, 1871 in Borów, Łowicz County &ndash; May 6, 1949 in Sulejówek) was a Polish economist and politician, member of the Sejm, associated with the National Democracy political camp.
Stanisław was the brother of another prominent Polish politician, economist and Prime Minister Władysław Grabski, and political activist Zofia Kirkor-Kiedroniowa.
Stanisław Grabski became a political activist early in his life.
In 1890 he was the editor of the Workers Gazette in Berlin.
In 1892 he co-founded the Polish Socialist Party (PPS) but in 1901 he detached himself from that political movement to become a member of Roman Dmowski's "nationalist" camp (later known as National Democracy).
A member of the National League since 1905, a year later he become one of its leaders.
From 1907 he was a member of Dmowski's party, the National-Democratic Party.
During World War I Grabski, like Dmowski, supported the idea that Poles should ally with Russia, and later he joined Dmowski's Polish National Committee (Komitet Narodowy Polski) in Paris.
From 1919 to 1925, in newly independent Poland (the Second Polish Republic), he was a deputy to the Sejm (the Polish parliament) from the right-wing National Populist Association (Związek Ludowo-Narodowy).
During the Polish-Soviet War (1919–1921) he strongly opposed the alliance between Poland and the Ukraine (represented by Symon Petlura).
He resigned as chair of the parliamentary commission on foreign relations in protest of this alliance.
During the negotiations of the Treaty of Riga (1921), where he was a Polish negotiator, he was to a great extent responsible for the disregarding of Ukrainian wishes, with resulting partitioning of Ukraine between Poland and the Soviet Union.
This was in contrast to the idea of creation of an independent Ukrainian state, as advocated by one of the architects of the Polish-Ukrainian alliance, Józef Piłsudski.
In 1923 and from 1925 to 1926 he was the Minister of Religious Beliefs and Public Education.
In that time he further pursued nationalist policies, especially Polonization.
He was the architect of the 1924 Lex Grabski, which de facto sought to eliminate the Ukrainian language from Polish schools.
These policies resulted in a dramatic increase in Ukrainian private schools and served to alienate Ukrainian youths from Polish authority.
In 1926 he was also one of the first Poles to speak on radio, during the Polish Radio inauguration ceremony.
He was also one of the principal Polish negotiators for the Concordat of 1925.
After Piłsudski's May Coup in 1926 he distanced himself from politics and concentrated on academic research into economics.
Before the Second World War, he was a professor at the Lwów University, Dublany Agricultural Academy, and Jagiellonian University.
In the aftermath of the Invasion of Poland of 1939, when the Soviet Union joined the German invasion and took control of Eastern Poland (Kresy), Grabski, like many prominent Polish intellectuals, was arrested by the Soviets and imprisoned.
In the aftermath of the Sikorski-Mayski Agreement, he was released and moved to London, where he joined the Polish government in exile.
He returned to Poland in 1945.
Working closely together with Polish communist Wanda Wasilewska, Grabski (who referred to Stalin as "the greatest realist of all") sought to use Stalin to create a compact and ethnically homogenous Poland and helped to design a program for implementing policies to insure an ethnically pure Polish state.
He proposed Polish and Ukrainian resettlement plans to Stalin, and traveled to Lviv in order to urge Poles to leave.
He became one of the deputies to the president of the quasi-parliament State National Council, until the new Sejm was elected in the Polish legislative election, 1947.
Afterwards he returned to his teaching career, becoming a professor at the University of Warsaw.
He died in Sulejówek and was buried at Powązki Cemetery in the family grave of the Grabski family.
In 1895, Grabski married Ludmiła Rożen.
The couple had five children – three daughters (Feliksa, Ludmiła, Janina) and two sons (Stanisław and Zbigniew).
Stanisław died in 1920 during the Polish-Soviet War.
Zbigniew (1907–1943) was a scoutmaster, jailed until 1941 by Soviets, he died as a result of an accident during his military duties.
After the death of his wife in 1915, Stanisław Grabski married Zofia Smolikówna in 1916.
They had two daughters - Anna (born 1919) and Stanisława (1922–2008).
Islam is the official state religion in Tunisia.
It is estimated that the majority of Tunisians consider themselves as Muslim, even though there were never a census on the matter.
Most Tunisian Muslims are Sunni belonging to the Malikite madhhab, but a small number of Ibadhi Muslims (Kharijites) still exist among the Berber-speakers of Jerba Island.
There is no reliable data on the number of practicing Muslims.
There is a small indigenous Sufi Muslim community; however, there are no statistics regarding its size.
Reliable sources report that many Sufis left the country shortly after independence when their religious buildings and land reverted to the Government (as did those of Orthodox Islamic foundations).
Although the Sufi community is small, its tradition of mysticism permeates the practice of Islam throughout the country.
During annual Ramadan festivals, Sufis provide public cultural entertainment by performing religious dances.
The Constitution declares Islam the official state religion and stipulates that the President must be a Muslim.
The government controls and subsidizes mosques and pays the salaries of prayer leaders.
The famous Islamic madrasa Zaytuna, was attached to the Tunis University in 1958 and a Grand Mufti of the Republic named.
In April 1987 a Higher Islamic Council was created.
The President appoints the Grand Mufti of the Republic.
The 1988 Law on Mosques provides that only personnel appointed by the Government may lead activities in mosques and stipulates that mosques must remain closed except during prayer times and other authorized religious ceremonies, such as marriages or funerals, although this rule was discontinued following the Arab Spring Revolution and now Mosques are open almost 24/7.
Police stations will often be found near mosques.
[ Some people maybe interrogated just for associating or being seen in the street with practising Muslims.
New mosques may be built in accordance with national urban planning regulations; however, upon completion, they become the property of the Government.
The Government also partially subsidizes the Jewish community.
The following religious holidays are considered national holidays: Eid al-Adha, Eid al-Fitr, Ras Al-Am El-Hejri, and Mawlid.
The Government also recognizes the sanctity of non-Muslim religious holidays.
Islamic religious education is mandatory in public schools, but the religious curriculum for secondary school students also includes the history of Judaism and Christianity.
The Zeitouna Koranic School is part of the Government's national university system.
Generally, Shari'a-based interpretation of civil law is applied only in some family cases.
Some families avoid the effects of Shari'a on inheritance by executing sales contracts between parents and children to ensure that sons and daughters receive equal shares of property.
According to the State Department's 2004 International Religious Freedom Report, referenced below, there were some reports that the Government did not allow married, interfaith couples to register the birth of their children.
In these cases, couples were denied birth certificates if the mother was Christian and the father was Muslim and the parents tried to give their children non-Arabic names.
Secularism in Iran was established as state policy shortly after Rezā Shāh was crowned Shah in 1924.
He made any public display or expression of religious faith, including the wearing of the headscarf (hijab) and chador by women and wearing of facial hair by men (with the exception of the mustache) illegal.
Public religious festivals (such as Muharram and Ashura) and celebrations were banned, Islamic clergy were forbidden to preach in public, and mosque activities were heavily restricted and regulated.
Although criticised by the religious traditionalists and viewed as authoritarian by foreign observers, Reza Shah intended to secularise Iran and eliminate the influence of the Shi'a clergy upon the government and the society.
During his reign, the first instances of Islamic extremism and terrorism appeared in Iran as a backlash against his secularist policies.
For example, secularist politicians and writers such as Ahmad Kasravi were assassinated by Muslim fighters, the most notorious of which remains Navvab Safavi, who today is considered a hero by the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
After Reza Shah was forcibly deposed and sent into exile by British and Soviet forces with the Anglo-Soviet invasion of Iran, the era of secularism in Iran ended.
From 1941 until 1953, democracy was properly restored to Iran, but the Shi'a clergy also were able to return to their previous level of power and influence because of their primary base of support in rural parts of central Iran.
After 1953 the Iranian government, while becoming less and less democratic, also increasingly took steps to restore Reza Shah's secularist policies and eliminate the influence of the Shi'a clergy and organised religion from the government and public life.
In the late 1960s, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi had forced the Shi'a clerical novitiates to attend public state-run universities in order to gain religious certification and license to preach, similar to Catholic and Christian schools of theology.
Mohammad Reza Shah also began taking steps in the 1970s to exclude Shi'a clergy from participating in the Parliament and to impose restrictions on public displays of religion and religious observance.
Both Reza Shah and Mohammad Reza Shah took much inspiration from the post-revolutionary French and Classical American political schools of thought which advocate separation of religion and state, and both blamed the British for the rise of Islamism and radical Islam in Iran and the Middle East.
For this reason Pahlavi Iran vigorously pursued close relations with France and the United States.
In 1979, after the deposition of the government of Prime Minister Shapour Bakhtiar in February of that year, an interim government was established under Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan which sought to establish a nationalist Islamic democratic government with pro-free market economic policy, in opposition to the wishes of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and his pro-Islamic Republic faction.
Bazargan's government resigned en masse in November 1979 immediately after the US Embassy takeover by radicalist students.
The end of Bazargan's government officially marked the end of state-directed secularism in Iran.
In February 1980 the Islamic Republican Party established the current theocratic government of Iran, with Ayatollah Khomeini as Supreme Leader of Iran.
Secular opposition to the Islamist government of the Islamic Republic of Iran has been active in the country up until 1984, afterwards they were branded heretics and apostates by the clerical hierarchy, and eventually jailed and executed, or exiled.
Bias in education refers to real or perceived bias in the educational system.
The content of school textbooks is often the issue of debate, as their target audience is young people, and the term "whitewashing" is the one commonly used to refer to selective removal of critical or damaging evidence or comment.
The reporting of military atrocities in history is extremely controversial, as in the case of the Holocaust (or Holocaust denial) and the Winter Soldier Investigation of the Vietnam War.
The representation of every society's flaws or misconduct is typically downplayed in favor of a more nationalist or patriotic view.
Also, Christians and other religionists have at times attempted to block the teaching of the theory of evolution in schools, as evolutionary theory appears to contradict their religious beliefs; the teaching of creationism as a science is likewise blocked from many public schools.
In the context of secondary-school education, the way facts and history are presented greatly influences the interpretation of contemporary thought, opinion and socialization.
One legitimate argument for censoring the type of information disseminated is based on the inappropriate quality of such material for the young.
The use of the "inappropriate" distinction is in itself controversial, as it can be used to enforce wider and more politically motivated censorship.
Religious bias in textbooks is often observed in countries where religion plays a dominant role.
Many countries and states have guidelines against bias in education, but they are not always implemented.
The guidelines of the California Department of Education (Code 60044) state the following: "No religious belief or practice may be held up to ridicule and no religious group may be portrayed as inferior."
"Any explanation or description of a religious belief or practice should be present in a manner that does not encourage or discourage belief or indoctrinate the student in any particular religious belief."
On the basis of these guidelines, the Board of Education of California corrected in 2005 misrepresentations of Judaism, Islam and Hinduism in schoolbooks.
[1] Many of these misrepresentations were described as biased, erroneuous or culturally derogatory.
All 500 changes proposed by Jews and about 100 changes proposed by Muslims were accepted.
Many recent allegations against the United States have surfaced about the hiding of many historical facts from the public through public education and thus luring the public to believing that the actions taken by the U.S. government are justified and provide a global benefit.
Howard Zinn and James Loewen are among the well-recognized critics of US history as presented in school textbooks.
A People's History of the United States, by American historian and political scientist Zinn, seeks to present American history through the eyes of groups rarely heard in mainstream histories.
Loewen spent two years at the Smithsonian Institution studying and comparing twelve American history textbooks widely used throughout the United States.
His findings were published in Lies My Teacher Told Me: Everything Your High School History Textbook Got Wrong.
In a landmark book called "The Trouble with Textbooks," Dr. Gary A. Tobin and Dennis R. Ybarra show how millions of American schoolchildren are taught anti-Semitic versions of Jewish history and faith, particularly in relation to Christianity and Islam.
The authors found that U.S. textbooks "tend to discredit the ties between Jews and the Land of Israel.
Israel is blamed for starting wars in the region and being colonialist.
Jews are charged with deicide in the killing of Jesus.
All in all, there are repeated misrepresentations that cross the line into bigotry."
Extreme bias against Israel has been found in Arab textbooks, and classroom maps are often altered to replace the label "Israel" with "Palestine".
Their writings frequently refer to Israel as "the small Satan" and America as "the great Satan."
Arab schools almost universally teach Holocaust denial; Israelis are often labelled as Nazis, and Zionism is treated as comparable to Nazism.
In February 2007, eight 12th grade Palestinian textbooks were analyzed by the Palestinian Media Watch.
In addition, the report describes the Islamic World and the United States as being involved in a "Clash of Civilizations" and describes the Iraqi Insurgency as being engaged in "brave resistance to liberate Iraq".
Following the 2001 terrorist attacks against the US, America asked that Saudi textbooks be revised to remove sections that promoted violence against Jews and Christians.
Saudi officials claimed to have completed the adjustments, though a 2006 report claimed otherwise.
In 1982 the NCERT (National Council of Educational Research and Training) issued guidelines for the rewriting of schoolbooks.
It stipulated that: "Characterization of the medieval period as a time of conflict between Hindus and Muslims is forbidden."
In April 1989 the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education had issued instructions to schools and publishers of textbooks that "Muslim rule should never attract any criticism.
Destruction of temples by Muslim rulers and invaders should not be mentioned."
Schools and publishers have been asked to ignore and delete mention of forcible conversions to Islam.
Some academicians have felt that these "corrections" were politically motivated and that they are censorship.
Arun Shourie criticized these changes in schoolbooks and claimed: The most extensive deletions are ordered in regard to the chapter on "Aurangzeb's policy on religion".
Every allusion to what he actually did to the Hindus, to their temples, to the very leitmotif of his rule - to spread the sway of Islam – are directed to be excised from the book.
... "In a word, no forcible conversions, no massacres, no destruction of temples.
... Muslim historians of those times are in raptures at the heap of Kafirs [sic] who have been dispatched to hell.
Muslim historians are forever lavishing praise on the ruler for the temples he has destroyed, ... Law books like The Hedaya prescribe exactly the options to which these little textbooks alluded.
Objective whitewash for objective history.
And today if anyone seeks to restore truth to these textbooks, the shout, "Communal rewriting of history.""
History textbooks and schoolbooks written by Marxist historian Romila Thapar have been criticized for being biased Bias in education has been a common feature in the curriculum of many South Asian countries.
According to Waghmar, many of the oriental societies are plagued by visceral nationalism and post-imperial neurosis where state-sanctioned dogmas suppress eclectic historical readings.
Issues such as the preaching of hatred and obscurantism and the distortion of history in Pakistan have led the international scholars to suggest the need for coordinated efforts amongst the historians to produce a composite history of the subcontinent as a common South Asian reader.
Bias against Indians and Hindus, as well as other religious minorities, have been found in Pakistani schoolbooks.
However, Nelson here stresses the need for any educational reform to be based at the needs of the level of local communities.
The bias in Pakistani textbooks was studied by Rubina Saigol, Pervez Hoodbhoy, K. K. Aziz, I.
A. Rahman, Mubarak Ali, A. H. Nayyar, Ahmed Saleem, Yvette Rosser and others.
A study by Nayyar & Salim (2003) that was conducted with 30 experts of Pakistan's education system, found that the textbooks contain statements that seek to create hate against Hindus.
There was also an emphasis on Jihad, Shahadat, wars and military heroes.
The study reported that the textbooks also had a lot of gender-biased stereotypes.
Some of the problems in Pakistani textbooks cited in the report were: "Insensitivity to the existing religious diversity of the nation"; "Incitement to militancy and violence, including encouragement of Jehad and Shahadat"; a "glorification of war and the use of force"; "Inaccuracies of fact and omissions that serve to substantially distort the nature and significance of actual events in our history"; "Perspectives that encourage prejudice, bigotry and discrimination towards fellow citizens, especially women and religious minorities, and other towards nations" and "Omission of concepts ... that could encourage critical selfawareness among students".
These problems still seem to persist: The Curriculum Wing of the Federal Ministry of Education rejected a textbook in December 2003 because of two serious objections: The textbook contained the text of letter of a non-Muslim, and it contained the story of a family were both husband and wife worked and were sharing their household chores.
In February 2004, a textbook was disapproved by the Curriculum Wing because it didn't contain enough material on jihad.
Pakistani textbooks were relatively unbiased up to 1972, but were rewritten and completely altered under Bhutto's and especially under Zia's (1977–88) rule.
[4] The bias in Pakistani textbooks was also documented by Yvette Rosser (2003).
She wrote that "in the past few decades, social studies textbooks in Pakistan have been used as locations to articulate the hatred that Pakistani policy makers have attempted to inculcate towards their Hindu neighbours", and that as a result "in the minds of generations of Pakistanis, indoctrinated by the 'Ideology of Pakistan' are lodged fragments of hatred and suspicion."
Professors who have been critical of Pakistani politics or corruption have are sometimes discriminated against.
Dr. Parvez Hoodbhoy, who was also a critic of Pakistani politics, had troubles leaving the country for a lecture in the Physics department at MIT, because he was denied a NOC (No Objection Certificate) necessary for travels abroad [5] One of the omissions in Pakistani textbooks is Operation Gibraltar.
Operation Gibraltar, which provoked the Indian Army attack on Lahore, is not mentioned in most history textbooks.
According to Pakistani textbooks, Lahore was attacked without any provocation on the part of the Pakistani army.
The rule of Islamic invaders like Mahmud of Gahzni is glorified, while the much more peaceful Islamic ruler Akbar is often ignored in Pakistani textbooks.
The Pakistani Curriculum document for classes K-V stated in 1995 that "at the completion of Class-V, the child should be able to":
A gloss (from , from glóssa "language") is a brief marginal notation of the meaning of a word or wording in a text.
It may be in the language of the text, or in the reader's language if that is different.
A collection of glosses is a glossary.
A collection of medieval legal glosses, made by so-called glossators, is called an apparatus.
The compilation of glosses into glossaries was the beginning of lexicography, and the glossaries so compiled were in fact the first dictionaries.
In modern times a glossary, as opposed to a dictionary, is typically found in a text as an appendix of specialized terms that the typical reader may find unfamiliar.
Also, satirical explanations of words and events are called glosses.
The German Romantic movement used the expression of gloss for poems commenting on a given other piece of poetry, often in the Spanish Décima style.
Glosses were originally notes made in the margin or between the lines of a text in a Classical language, in which the meaning of a word or passage is explained.
As such, glosses vary in thoroughness and complexity, from simple marginal notations of words one reader found difficult or obscure, to interlinear translations of a text with cross references to similar passages.
The word "gloss" was first used in the 1570s to refer to the insertion of a word as an explanation.
It began to be used to mean to "explain away" in the 1630s, and originated from the concept of a note being inserted in the margin of a text to explain a difficult word.
Glosses and other marginal notes were a primary format used in medieval Biblical theology, and were studied and memorized for their own merit.
Many Biblical passages came to be associated with a particular gloss, whose truth was taken to be scriptural.
Indeed, in one case, it is generally reckoned that an early gloss explicating the doctrine of the Trinity made its way into the Scriptural text itself, in the passage known as the "three heavenly witnesses" or the Comma Johanneum, which is present in the Vulgate Latin and the third and later editions of the Greek Textus Receptus collated by Erasmus (the first two editions excluded it for lack of manuscript evidence), but is absent from all modern critical reconstructions of the New Testament text, such as Westcott and Hort, Tischendorf, and Nestle-Aland.
In the medieval legal tradition, the glosses on Roman law and Canon law created standards of reference, so-called sedes materiae (literally: seat of the matter).
In common law countries, the term "judicial gloss" refers to what is considered an authoritative or "official" interpretation of a statute or regulation by a judge.
Judicial glosses are often very important in avoiding contradictions between statutes, and determining the constitutionality of various provisions of law.
A gloss, or glosa, is a verse in traditional Iberian literature and music which follows and comments on a refrain (the "mote").
Glosses are of some importance in philology, especially if one language&mdash;usually, the language of the author of the gloss&mdash;has left few texts of its own.
The Reichenau glosses, for example, gloss the Latin Vulgate Bible in an early form of one of the Romance languages, and as such give insight into late Vulgar Latin at a time when that language was not often written down.
A series of glosses in the Old English language to Latin Bibles give us a running translation of Biblical texts in that language; see Old English Bible translations.
Glosses of Christian religious texts are also important for our knowledge of Old Irish.
Glosses frequently shed valuable light on the vocabulary of otherwise little attested languages; they are less reliable for syntax, because many times the glosses follow the word order of the original text, and translate its idioms literally.
In linguistics, a simple gloss in running text may be marked by single quotation marks and follow the transcription of a foreign word.
A longer or more complex transcription may rely upon an interlinear gloss.
Such a gloss may be placed between a text and its translation when it is important to understand the structure of the language being glossed, and not just the overall meaning of the passage.
Sign languages are typically transcribed word-for-word by means of a gloss written in the predominant oral language in all capitals; American Sign Language and Auslan would be written in English.
Prosody is often glossed as superscript words, with its scope indicated by brackets.
Pure fingerspelling is usually indicated by hyphenation.
Fingerspelled words that have been lexicalized (that is, fingerspelling sequences that have entered the sign language as linguistic units and that often have slight modifications) are indicated with a hash.
For example, W-I-K-I indicates a simple fingerspelled word, but #JOB indicates a lexicalized unit, produced like J-O-B, but faster, with a barely perceptible O and turning the "B" hand palm side in, unlike a regularly fingerspelled "B".
Freedom of religion in Germany is guaranteed by article 4 of the Basic Law (constitution).
This states that "the freedom of religion, conscience and the freedom of confessing one's religious or philosophical beliefs are inviolable.
Uninfringed religious practice is guaranteed."
In addition, article 3 states that "No one may be prejudiced or favored because of his gender, his descent, his race, his language, his homeland and place of origin, his faith or his religious or political views."
Any person or organization can call the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany for free help.
The German system of state support for otherwise independent religious institutions assists all religions equally in principle, though in practice it has been unable to fully encompass some minority faiths.
The government has granted most of the country’s major religious communities “public law corporation” (PLC) status – Körperschaft des öffentlichen Rechts in German – which allows for numerous benefits.
Traditions that lack a centrally organized national structure – most notably Islam – have had difficulty attaining PLC status and the benefits that come with it.
The freedom of religion in the Grundgesetz (Basic Law) means one may adopt any kind of religious or non-religious belief, practice it in private or in public, confess it, or keep it for oneself.
The state does not identify with any religious organization.
Religious freedom, like the other basic rights of the Grundgesetz, is limited where it collides with the core value of human dignity or with the basic rights of others, or if it is misused to fight against the basic constituency of free democracy.
III provides for the right to refrain from military service in the name of religion (lit.
German law on freedom of religion distinguishes between individual and collective freedom of religion.
Collective freedom of religion additionally covers the legal statutes of religious organizations.
Of special interest is the statute of corporate body under public law, which allows the organization to collect church tax and hold religious education in state schools.
A religious group in Germany can be formed under all legal statutes.
It can be organised as a company under Corporate law, but tax regulations, company duties, and responsibilities are often seen as disadvantages.
A voluntary association can be formed by anybody.
Registration as an "eingetragener Verein" (abbreviated e.V.)
gives the advantage of legally functioning as a corporate body (juristic person), rather than a simple group of individuals.
It can by used by any secular or religious group.
Two other types of organizations are often employed: the most frequent are gemeinnützige not-for-profit corporations, which can be companies or registered associations.
This status requires not only limitation to non-commercial activities, but similar to American non-profit organizations, it is limited to those whose primary objective is to support an issue or matter of private interest or public concern for non-commercial purposes.
Like many other countries, nonprofits may apply for tax exemption status, so that the organization itself may be exempt from taxes.
In some cases, financial donors may claim back any income tax paid on their donations, or deduct from their own tax liability the amount of the donation.
The second is a Körperschaft des öffentlichen Rechts (corporate body under public law), a status which is specifically granted to religious groups.
Some smaller communities may have this status in one state, while they maintain a different status in another.
The status has a string of benefits attached.
Religious communities which are organized under public law have the right to collect contributions (church tax) according to laws which are similar to general tax laws.
Religious communities enjoy further privileges regarding building and tax regulations, the ability to teach religion as a regular course in state schools, and the ability to be represented in media consulting committees.
The so-called "church tax" ( ) for corporate bodies under public law is collected with the regular state tax by the state from all registered members of these denominations.
On the basis of tax regulations within the limits set by state laws, communities may either request the state to collect fees from members in the form of a surcharge of the income tax assessment (the authorities would then withhold a collection fee), or they may choose to collect the tax themselves.
In the first case, membership to the community is registered onto a taxation document (Lohnsteuerkarte).
The member's employer must then withhold church tax prepayments from the income of the employee in addition to the prepayments on the annual income tax.
In connection with the final annual income tax assessment, the state revenue authorities also finally assess the church tax owed.
In case of self-employed persons or other tax payers not employed, state revenue authorities collect prepayments on the church tax together with prepayments on the income tax.
In case of own collection, collecting communities may demand the tax authorities to reveal taxation data of their members, in order to be able to calculate the contributions and prepayments owed.
In particular, smaller communities (e.g.
the Jewish Community of Berlin) chose to collect taxes by themselves in order to save the collection fee .
Collection of church tax may be used to found institutions and foundations or to pay ministers.
The church tax is only paid by members of the respective religious corporate body under public law .
Those who are not members of a tax collecting denomination are not required to pay it.
Members of a religious community which is a corporate body under public law may formally declare to state authorities that they wish to leave the community (this is commonly referred to as "leaving the church").
With such declaration, the obligation to pay church taxes ends.
The concerned religious organisations usually refuse to administer rites of passage, such as marriages and burials of (former) members who had seceded.
To rejoin a religious corporate body under public law one would get one's declaration of re-entry officially recorded.
The Conference of the German Bishops, however, considers the declaration to "leave the church" to be a schismatic act to be punished automatically by excommunication.
The church tax is historically rooted in the pre-Christian Germanic custom where the chief of the tribe was directly responsible for the maintenance of priests and religious cults.
During the Christianization of Western Europe, this custom was adopted by the churches into the concept of Eigenkirchen (churches owned by the landlord), which stood in strong contrast to the central church organization of the Roman Catholics.
Despite the resulting medieval conflict between the emperor and pope, the concept of church maintenance by the ruler remained the accepted custom in most Western European countries.
In Reformation times, the local princes in Germany officially became heads of the church in Protestant areas, and were legally responsible for the maintenance of churches; the aforementioned practice is legally referred to as Summepiscopat.
Only in the 19th century did the financial flows of churches and state get regulated to a point where the churches became financially independent – the church tax was introduced to replace the state benefits the churches had obtained before.
In July 2008, the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany had to decide whether a fee for leaving a religious corporate body under public law ("leaving the church") was in accordance with the constitution.
Ultimately, the court decided it was an unconstitutional infringement of religious liberty.
As the state of affairs in August 2008 noted, declaring that one is no longer a member of a church costs between 10 and 30 € in most federal states.
It is free in Berlin, Brandenburg, Bremen, and Thuringia; in some communities in Baden-Württemberg, in contrast, it may cost up to 60 €.
In its decision, the Federal Constitutional Court also clarified that the legislator is required by the constitution to reduce the fee, in cases where the person who wants to "leave the church" does not have any personal income.
The German atheist group IBKA disagreed with the decision and took the issue to the European Court of Human Rights.
Education is the responsibility of the 16 federal states (Bundesländer), and each state can decide how to organise religious education.
In most states, religious education is obligatory.
The curriculum is provided by the churches and approved by the state.
Usually the Roman Catholic Church and one Protestant Church each provide school lessons for members of their own denominations, and for members of other denominations that wish to participate.
Smaller denominations and some other religious minorities either co-operate with one of the big ones or may decide to conduct classes outside school.
In the latter case they can provide the school with details of pupils' performance, so that this information can be included in school reports.
Children who do not want to participate in religious education are obliged to attend an alternative class called "ethics", in which various issues of philosophy, society, and morals are discussed.
In most cases, even if pupils that stay in one class for almost all their lessons, they are divided into three groups (Roman Catholic, Protestant, Ethics) for their religious education, joining other pupils they might not know very well, but who belong to the same denomination.
The position is reversed in some states (Berlin, Brandenburg): the default option, similar to "ethics", is called "knowledge of life".
Pupils may choose instead to attend a denominational course.
As the city has many Muslim immigrant children, Berlin also offers Islamic classes, although Muslim associations are not corporate bodies under public law.
Other states (Bremen, Hamburg) have different systems of their own.
The Peace of Augsburg in 1555 changed the legal situation from a uniform Roman Catholic area to the Cuius regio, eius religio principle, which defined freedom of religion for territorial princes, while their subjects had to follow them .
Individuals had at best the possibility to move into an area where their confession was practiced.
Depending on the reigning prince, there could exist a certain tolerance towards other denominations, but not as a common law.
In the first half of the 17th century, Germany was laid to waste by the Thirty Years' War, where the lines between enemies within Germany followed mainly denominational borders between the areas of the Catholic League (German) and those of the Protestant Union, resulting in a time of harsh intolerance.
Pastor and hymn writer Paul Gerhardt was forced out of office in 1755 due to his staunch Lutheran convictions in a Berlin ruled by a reformed prince.
In the 18th century, the idea of freedom of religion was promoted by cultural leaders like philosopher Immanuel Kant and dramatist Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, but their stress was on the freedom of the individual to believe or to not adhere to the beliefs of a dominant state church.
The German Empire of 1871 recognized a basic religious freedom for individuals.
The constitution of Weimar of 1919 defined individual freedom of religion in article 136: the civil and civic rights and duties are neither qualified nor restricted by exercise of freedom of religion.
No one can be forced to attend an ecclesiastical act or ceremony or be forced to take part in religious exercises or use a religious formula of oath.
Article 137 was about religious associations.
Main points include the omission of recognition of a state church.
Religious associations manage their own affairs within the limits of general law.
Religious offices are given without the influence of the state.
Religious associations are legal entities.
Religious associations which are "bodies of public law" keep this status.
Other religious associations can request the same rights, if they can show by their constituency and number of members that they are permanently established.
Associations with the purpose of cultivating a world view have the same status as religious associations.
During the time of the Third Reich, there was a very real danger of religious persecution for adherents of any religious association beside the Protestant Reich Church.
In 1949, West Germany formulated religious freedom in the Grundgesetz.
On the other hand, communist East Germany did officially claim religious freedom, which existed in actual practice only for low-key private exercise of religion, and did not interfere with any duties towards the state.
Outspoken pastors had to face prison in extreme cases, but the more frequent way of dealing with openly confessing Christians and clerics was subtle repression, like strict observance by the state security, or forbidding admission to college for their children.
While church and state in Germany are legally separated, and have been so since the Weimar Republic, there remains the fact that Germany has been under the dominating social and cultural influence of one single church, be it Protestant or Roman Catholic.
This influence determined education, arts, music, customs, festivals, lifestyle, and even, to some degree, architecture.
In eastern Germany and in urban areas, this cultural influence of religion has been substantially reduced; but, in rural areas, it still can be felt in Bavaria, and in some areas of Baden-Württemberg and the Siegerland.
Besides collective, German law protects individual freedom of religion, which is to be distinguished into positive and negative freedom of religion.
Negative freedom of religion covers the right not to confess your faith unless legally required (i. e. registration for church tax) and the right not to be exposed to religion while in a position of "subordination" where one is legally required to attend.
Landmark decisions are the Crucifix Decision and the Headscarf Decision.
In the Crucifix Decision the German Federal Constitution Court in 1995 decreed a law that insisted on the presence of religious symbols (crucifixes) in public institutions to be illegal, excluding in some Roman Catholic elementary schools.
The court further demanded that the symbols must be removed if a parent does not agree with them.
In 1973, a Jew complained successfully that his freedom of religion was violated by the obligation to speak in a German courtroom decorated by a cross.
In 2004, the German Supreme court denied a Muslim teacher the right to wear a headscarf in class, on the basis that she had to represent neutrality.
In this case, freedom of religion (of teachers) had to be brought into "balance" with the state's authority over schools (art.
7), the freedom not to be exposed to religion while in a state of subordination (art.
4), resp.
the parents' rights to raise their children (art.
6), and the specific duties of teachers as state servants (art.
33).
German courts rarely hold the freedom of religious and non-religious belief to be infringed, as freedom of religion is limited by the exertion of other basic rights (and duties) guaranteed by the Grundgesetz.
Already in the late 1970s, a teacher had also been denied the right to wear the distinct clothing of his religion at the workplace.
In Germany, high school students are not excused from classes on sexual education and evolution theory on the basis of religion, as it collides with the state's authority over schools (art.
7) and the legal duty to attend schools.
Homeschooling for religious reasons is illegal.
The German government provides information about cults, sects, and new religious movements.
In 1997, the parliament set up a commission for Sogenannte Sekten und Psychogruppen (literally "so-called sects and psychic groups") which delivered an extensive report on the situation in Germany regarding NRMs in 1998.
The main point of critics against Sekten from the governmental side is that they propagate a concept of the ideal human (Menschenbild de:Menschenbild) which is very different of the concept underlying the Grundgesetz (Basic Law).
For example, some cults may stress the inequality of social groups, races or sexes, and foster a culture where blind obedience and fundamentalism are welcomed.
The Grundgesetz, however, says that all people are equal and envisages people who are open-minded, discerning and tolerant.
In 2002, Germany's Federal Constitutional Court ruled that the German government had violated its constitution in its treatment of the Osho movement, using deprecating expressions about it that were not based on fact.
The Federal Constitutional Court took eleven years to come to its decision, and the overall duration of proceedings from the original complaint lasted over 18 years; Germany was subsequently fined by the European Court of Human Rights for the excessive duration of the case.
Given the limits set by the Federal Constitutional Court on the permitted scope of government actions in 2002, the European Court of Human Rights found that Germany was not in violation of Article 9 (freedom of thought, conscience and religion), Article 10 (freedom of expression) and Article 14 (prohibition of discrimination) of the European Convention on Human Rights, but found that it had violated Article 6 § 1 (right to a fair hearing within a reasonable time).
Since the 1990s, German courts have repeatedly denied the request of the Jehovah's Witnesses to become a corporate body under public law for various reasons, one of them being that the Jehovah's Witnesses would discourage their members from taking part in state elections, and would not respect the Grundgesetz.
In March 2005, Jehovah's Witnesses were granted the status of a body of public law for the state of Berlin, on the grounds that the alleged lack of fidelity towards the state had not been convincingly proven.
The decision on the group's status in Berlin was upheld by the Federal Administrative Court in 2006.
In subsequent years, corresponding decisions were made in 12 other states.
In the states of Baden-Württemberg, and Bremen, the group was denied the status in 2011.
Due to their status of corporate body under public law (in some states), Jehovah's Witnesses in 2010 filed a complaint for broadcasting time at Germany's international broadcaster, Deutsche Welle.
Concerning the issue of blood transfusions, the Federal Constitutional Court has held that transfusing blood to an unconscious Jehovah's Witness violated the person's will, but did not constitute a battery.
German courts have come to different decisions on employees and members of Scientology regarding their religious status.
The German government considers Scientology "an organization pursuing commercial interests".
Scientology is not classified as a non-profit organization in Germany, and the current organizational form of Scientology is "Scientology Kirche e.V."
(eingetragener Verein, or registered association).
Germany has been criticized over its treatment of Scientologists in United States human rights and religious freedom reports, and the U.S. government has repeatedly expressed its concern over the matter.Bonfante, Jordan; van Voorst, Bruce (1997-02-10).
"Does Germany Have Something Against These Guys?
", , Time </ref> Rebutting such accusations, and justifying its stance on Scientology, the German embassy in Washington has said that the German government believed Scientology's "pseudo-scientific courses can seriously jeopardise individuals' mental and physical health, and that it exploits its members."
In 2002, there was a legal controversy regarding the "Power for Living" campaign by the Christian Arthur S. DeMoss Foundation featuring celebrities Cliff Richard and Bernhard Langer.
The TV advertisings for their book were banned because they were considered as "advertising a worldview or religion", which is forbidden by § 7 section 8 of the state treaty on broadcasting (Rundfunkstaatsvertrag) and European laws on media.
For its posters, newspaper adverts and leaflets, however, there was no such problem.
There have been cases of groups in Germany which practice Germanic neopaganism facing legal sanctions because of their display of symbols, such as runes or the Celtic cross, which prosecutors have deemed illegal under laws against neo-Nazi propaganda.
Using "unconstitutional symbols", namely the swastika, is an offense punishable by up to three years in jail or a fine according to § 86a of the German Criminal Code.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Christian theology: Christian theology &ndash; enterprise to construct a coherent system of Christian belief and practice based primarily upon the texts of the Old Testament and the New Testament as well as the historic traditions of the faithful.
Christian theologians use biblical exegesis, rational analysis, and argument to clarify, examine, understand, explicate, critique, defend or promote Christianity.
Theology might be undertaken to help the theologian better understand Christian tenets, make comparisons between Christianity and other traditions, defend Christianity against objections and criticism, facilitate reforms in the Christian church, assist in the propagation of Christianity, draw on the resources of the Christian tradition to address some present situation or need, or for a variety of other reasons.
Christian theology can be described as all of the following: There are many methods of categorizing different approaches to Christian theology.
For a historical analysis, see the main article on the History of Christian theology.
Christian theologians may be specialists in one or more theological sub-disciplines.
These are the kinds of phrases that one finds in certain job titles such as 'Professor of x', 'Senior Lecturer in y': These topics crop up repeatedly and often in Christian theology; composing the main recurrent 'loci' around which Christian theological discussion revolves.
In many Christian seminaries, the four Great Departments of Theology are: The four departments can usefully be subdivided in the following way:<br> 1.
Historical theology (study of how Christian theology develops over time): One important branch of Christian theology is Roman Catholic theology which has these major teachings: Christians have had theological disagreements since the time of Jesus.
Theological disputes have given rise to many schisms and different Christian denominations, sects and movements.
Because the Reformation promoted the idea that Christians could expound their own views of theology based on the notion of "sola scriptura," the Bible alone, many theological distinctions have occurred between the various Protestant denominations.
The differences between many of the denominations are relatively minor; however, and this has helped ecumenical efforts in recent times.
In addition to the movements listed above, the following are some of the movements found amongst Christian theologians:
Monica Coleman (born 1974) is a contemporary theologian associated with process theology and womanist theology.
She is the Associate Professor of Constructive Theology and African American Religions at Claremont School of Theology and Associate Professor of Religion at Claremont Graduate University.
She is currently one of the co-directors of the Center for Process Studies.
Her research interests are in Whiteheadian metaphysics, constructive theology, philosophical theology, metaphorical theology, black and womanist theologies, African American religions, African traditional religions, theology and sexual and domestic violence and mental health and theology.
Tim Lambesis (born November 21, 1980) is an American musician and producer, best known as the founding member and lead vocalist of American metalcore band As I Lay Dying.
He also had a solo/side thrash metal project in tribute to actor Arnold Schwarzenegger, Austrian Death Machine, in which he performed all the instruments.
He also formed a death metal band called Pyrithion and played guitar for Society's Finest and Point of Recognition.
Lambesis was a judge for the 8th and 10th annual Independent Music Awards to support independent artists' careers.
Lambesis was arrested on May 7, 2013 after attempting to have an undercover police officer murder his wife.
He was later freed on bail, but was back in court on October 22 for arraignment, and he pleaded guilty on February 25, 2014.
He is currently serving a six-year sentence.
Lambesis grew up in Southern California and was voted "Most Like Jesus" by classmates when he attended Santa Fe Christian School in Solana Beach, CA as a teen.
He majored in Religious Studies at Liberty University, a private Christian college that offers classes online.
Lambesis is a bodybuilder and started his own YouTube fitness channel.
He is also heavily tattooed.
His tattoos include a "rocking Jesus," and cyborg Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Koi fish swimming upstream, which represents a quest for meaning and fulfillment, Hebrew writing, a cross, Jesus Christ in clouds, and his largest (completely covering his back), a samurai fighting a tiger, which represents the battle between reason and instinct.
Lambesis married Meggan Murphy in June 2004.
They have two daughters and a son all adopted from Ethiopia.
Starting in 2012, Lambesis has made several statements indicating a change in his religious beliefs: in a post on his personal Tumblr page explaining some of the lyrics from the AILD album Awakened (released September 2012), Lambesis stated that his studies of theology had led him to the conclusion that "tradition and truth are often at odds with each other".
While he noted that he "didn't hate all religious belief" and was "still inspired by the words of [Jesus]", he was finding it "very difficult for to outline exactly who it is that’s worth siding with", and was increasingly regarding "the god of tradition and ritual that I grew up with as less and less of a probable truth".
He also quoted the book Pagan Christianity by George Barna and Frank Viola, noting that both "Protestant and Catholic denominations have poisonous roots".
In August 2012, Lambesis sent an email to his wife, Meggan Murphy Lambesis, while on tour with AILD in which he stated he no longer loved her, had engaged in an extramarital affair, and "no longer believed in God".
They separated the same month.
She filed papers in San Diego Superior Court one month later in September 2012 seeking a dissolution of their marriage, according to an online court database.
In divorce papers, Meggan stated that Lambesis was obsessed with bodybuilding, spending "endless hours at the gym", and was wasting "thousands of dollars on tattoos".
She also alleged that he had become "dangerously distracted" while watching their children, including falling asleep while they played in their pool, and had taken two last-minute trips to Florida to see an extramarital girlfriend.
When not on tour, Lambesis lived in Del Mar, California.
Meggan and their children live in Encinitas.
On May 7, 2013, Lambesis was arrested in Oceanside, California, for attempting to hire a hitman to murder his estranged wife Meggan Murphy Lambesis, and, according to the San Diego Sheriff’s Department, was charged with soliciting “an undercover detective to kill his wife.” Lambesis allegedly approached someone at a gym and asked if he knew anyone who would kill his wife.
Lambesis allegedly met with the undercover agent posing as a hitman, code name "Red", according to Deputy District Attorney Claudia Grasso.
"Red" asked Lambesis if he wanted his wife of eight years gone, and Lambesis allegedly replied, "Yes, that's what I want."
He then gave [the] undercover agent an envelope containing US$1,000 for expenses, pictures of his wife, her address, the code to get through a gate, and the date on which to kill her.
Lambesis had allegedly directed the detective he believed to be a hitman to kill his wife while he was with his children so he would have an alibi.
He agreed to pay $20,000 for the hit.
On May 9, 2013, Lambesis pled not guilty to a felony charge of solicitation of murder and was ordered held on $3 million bail despite prosecutors deeming Lambesis a "flight risk" and "danger to the public".
Lambesis's bandmates, representatives from management and Metal Blade Records, and band attorney Ian Friedman were in attendance at his arraignment.
According to the District Attorney of the case, an audio recording of the transaction between Lambesis and the undercover detective exists and will reportedly be used at the trial.
A readiness conference was set for June 10, 2013, and a preliminary court date was scheduled for July 10, 2013.
During the month of his initial arrest, Lambesis pleaded "not guilty" and his lawyer stated: "His thought processes were devastatingly affected by his steroid use."
A new bail hearing was held for Lambesis on May 17, 2013, at which defense attorney Tom Warwick had bail reduced from $3 million to $2 million, which could not be posted by Lambesis at the time.
Lambesis allegedly suffered from steroid withdrawal in jail and was released on bail on May 30.
Lambesis was ordered to wear a GPS monitor, was subject to strict travel restrictions, and was unable to see or communicate with his wife and three children.
As a result, As I Lay Dying's mid-2013 tour with Killswitch Engage was cancelled.
On February 25, 2014, Lambesis changed his plea from "not guilty" to "guilty" and was sentenced to six years in prison on May 16, 2014 and credited with 48 days for time served.
While on house-arrest, Lambesis made a lengthy post on his personal blog in which he stated that (due to the ongoing criminal case) he was unable to "explain more about my case or to explicitly state what my current worldview is", but noted that "after my incarceration, I found myself re-evaluating topics that I had previously sworn I would never waste my time looking at again."
Lambesis stated that "I grew up in a Christian home and held that belief myself for many years.
In the process of sincerely trying to defend that belief in a scholarly way and shortly after finishing my degree, I felt that it was unreasonable to call myself a Christian in light of the evidence.
Many AILD fans picked up on the not-so-subtle hints at my worldview change in a couple songs on Awakened.
It was never really hidden."
On June 2014, Lambesis came out as an atheist, claiming that he, along with other members of the band, just kept pretending to be Christian just to sell records, a claim called slanderous and defamatory by another member of the band.
He even recalls feeling awkward when asked for their testimonies and when fans ask to pray with them.
According to Lambesis, his renunciation of Christianity made it easier to have an affair.
However, since his arrest the band has released a statement that Lambesis "has spent much of the last year re-evaluating what originally convinced him to abandon belief in God.
After much brokenness and repentance he sees things differently, considers himself a follower of Jesus, someone submitted to the will of God, or whatever you want to call it," adding, "That’s for him to talk about when he’s comfortable and only time will tell if he is sincere."
Christian fundamentalism began in the late 19th- and early 20th-century among British and American Protestants as a reaction to theological liberalism and cultural modernism.
Fundamentalists argued that 19th century modernist theologians had misinterpreted or rejected certain doctrines, especially biblical inerrancy, that they viewed as the fundamentals of Christian faith.
A few scholars regard Catholics who reject modern theology in favor of more traditional doctrines as fundamentalists.
Scholars debate how much the terms "evangelical" and "fundamentalist" are synonymous.
Interpretations of Christian fundamentalism have changed over time.
Fundamentalism is a movement manifested in various denominations with various theologies, rather than a single denomination or systematic theology.
It became active in the 1910s after the release of The Fundamentals, a twelve-volume set of essays, apologetic and polemic, written by conservative Protestant theologians to defend what they saw as Protestant orthodoxy.
The movement became more organized in the 1920s within U.S. Protestant churches, especially Baptist and Presbyterian.
Many such churches adopted a "fighting style" and combined Princeton theology with Dispensationalism.
Since 1930, many fundamentalist churches in North America and around the world have been represented by the Independent Fundamental Churches of America (renamed IFCA International in 1996), which holds to biblical inerrancy, the virgin birth of Jesus, substitutionary atonement, the literal resurrection of Christ, and the Second Coming of Christ, among other doctrines.
The term fundamentalism was coined by Baptist editor Curtis Lee Laws in 1920 to designate Christians who were ready "to do battle royal for the fundamentals".
The term was quickly adopted by all sides.
Laws borrowed it from the title of a series of essays published between 1910 and 1915 called The Fundamentals: A Testimony to the Truth.
The term "fundamentalism" entered the English language in 1922, and is often capitalized when referring to the religious movement.
The term fundamentalist is controversial in the 21st century, as it can carry the connotation of religious extremism, even though it was coined by movement leaders.
Some who hold these beliefs reject the label of "fundamentalism", seeing it as too pejorative, while to others it has become a banner of pride.
Such Christians prefer to use the term fundamental, as opposed to fundamentalist (e.g., Independent Fundamental Baptist and Independent Fundamental Churches of America).
The term is sometimes confused with Christian legalism.
Fundamentalism came from multiple streams in British and American theology of the 19th century.
The first important stream was Evangelicalism as it emerged in the revivals of the First Great Awakening and Second Great Awakening in America and the Methodism movement in England in the period 1730–1840.
They in turn had been influenced by the Pietism movement in Germany.
Church historian Randall Balmer explains that: A second stream was Dispensationalism, a new interpretation of the Bible developed in the 1830s in England.
John Nelson Darby's ideas were disseminated by the notes and commentaries in the widely used Scofield Reference Bible, published in 1909.
Dispensationalism was a millenarian theory that divided all of time into seven different stages, called "dispensations", which were seen as stages of God's revelation.
At the end of each stage, according to this theory, God punished humanity for having been found wanting in God's testing.
Secularism, liberalism, and immorality in the 1920s were believed to be signs that humanity had again failed God's testing.
Dispensationalists held to a form of eschatology that believed that the world was on the verge of the last stage, where a final battle will take place at Armageddon, followed by Christ's return and 1,000 year reign.
A third stream was Princeton Theology, which responded to higher criticism of the Bible by developing from the 1840s to 1920 the doctrine of inerrancy.
This doctrine, also called biblical inerrancy, stated that the Bible was divinely inspired, religiously authoritative, and without error.
The Princeton Seminary professor of Theology Charles Hodge insisted that the Bible was inerrant because God inspired or "breathed" his exact thoughts into the biblical writers (2 Timothy 3:16).
Princeton theologians believed that the Bible should be read differently from any other historical document, and also that Christian modernism and liberalism led people to hell just like non-Christian religions.
Biblical inerrancy was a particularly significant rallying point for fundamentalists.
This approach to the Bible is associated with conservative evangelical hermeneutical approaches to Scripture ranging from the historical-grammatical method to biblical literalism.
A fourth stream—the immediate spark—was the 12-volume study The Fundamentals, published 1910-1915.
Sponsors subsidized the free distribution of over three million individual volumes to clergy, laymen and libraries.
This version stressed several core beliefs, including: Like Princeton Theology, The Fundamentals reflected growing opposition among many evangelical Christians towards higher criticism of the Bible and modernism.
The interpretations given the fundamentalist movement have changed over time, with most older interpretations being based on the concepts of social displacement or cultural lag.
Some in the 1930s, including H. Richard Niebuhr, understood the conflict between fundamentalism and modernism to be part of a broader social conflict between the cities and the country.
In this view the fundamentalists were country and small-town dwellers who were reacting against the progressivism of city dwellers.
Fundamentalism was seen as a form of anti-intellectualism during the 1950s; in the early 1960s Richard Hofstadter interpreted it in terms of status anxiety.
Beginning in the late 1960s the movement began to be seen as "a bona fide religious, theological and even intellectual movement in its own right."
Instead of interpreting fundamentalism as a simple anti-intellectualism, Paul Carter argued that "fundamentalists were simply intellectual in a way different than their opponents."
Moving into the 1970s, Earnest R. Sandeen saw fundamentalism as arising from the confluence of Princeton Theology and millennialism.
George Marsden defined fundamentalism as "militantly anti-modernist Protestant evangelicalism" in his 1980 work Fundamentalism and American Culture.
"Militant" in this sense does not mean "violent", it means "aggressively active in a cause".
Marsden saw fundamentalism arising from a number of preexisting evangelical movements that responded to various perceived threats by joining forces.
He argued that Christian fundamentalists were American evangelical Christians who in the 20th century opposed "both modernism in theology and the cultural changes that modernism endorsed.
Militant opposition to modernism was what most clearly set off fundamentalism."
Others viewing militancy as a core characteristic of the fundamentalist movement include Philip Melling, Ung Kyu Pak and Ronald Witherup.
Donald McKim and David Wright (1992) argue that "in the 1920s, militant conservatives (fundamentalists) united to mount a conservative counter-offensive.
Fundamentalists sought to rescue their denominations from the growth of modernism at home."
According to Marsden, recent scholars differentiate "fundamentalists" from "evangelicals" by arguing the former were more militant and less willing to collaborate with groups considered "modernist" in theology.
In the 1940s the more moderate faction of fundamentalists maintained the same theology but began calling themselves "evangelicals" to stress their less militant position.
Roger Olson (2007) identifies a more moderate faction of fundamentalists, which he calls "postfundamentalist", and says "most postfundamentalist evangelicals do not wish to be called fundamentalists, even though their basic theological orientation is not very different."
According to Olson, a key event was the formation of the National Association of Evangelicals (NAE) in 1942.
Barry Hankins (2008) has a similar view, saying "beginning in the 1940s....militant and separatist evangelicals came to be called fundamentalists, while culturally engaged and non-militant evangelicals were supposed to be called evangelicals."
Timothy Weber views fundamentalism as "a rather distinctive modern reaction to religious, social and intellectual changes of the late 1800s and early 1900s, a reaction that eventually took on a life of its own and changed significantly over time."
Fundamentalist movements existed in most North American Protestant denominations by 1919 following attacks on modernist theology in Presbyterian and Baptist denominations.
Fundamentalism was especially controversial among Presbyterians.
A leading organizer of the fundamentalist campaign against modernism in the United States was William Bell Riley, a Northern Baptist based in Minneapolis, where his Northwestern Bible and Missionary Training School (1902), Northwestern Evangelical Seminary (1935), and Northwestern College (1944) produced thousands of graduates.
At a large conference in Philadelphia in 1919, Riley created the World Christian Fundamentals Association (WCFA), which became the chief interdenominational fundamentalist organization in the 1920s.
Although the fundamentalist drive of the 1920s to take control of the major Protestant denominations failed at the national level, the network of churches and missions fostered by Riley shows the movement was growing in strength, especially in the U.S. South.
Both rural and urban in character, the flourishing movement acted as a denominational surrogate and fostered a militant evangelical Christian orthodoxy.
Riley was president of WCFA until 1929, after which the WFCA faded in importance.
The Independent Fundamental Churches of America became a leading association of U.S. fundamentalist churches upon its founding in 1930.
Much of the enthusiasm for mobilizing fundamentalism came from Christian seminaries and Christian "Bible colleges" in the United States.
Two leading fundamentalist seminaries were the Dispensationalist Dallas Theological Seminary, founded in 1924 by Lewis Sperry Chafer, and the Reformed Westminster Theological Seminary, formed in 1929 under the leadership and funding of former Princeton Theological Seminary professor J. Gresham Machen.
Many Bible colleges were modeled after the Moody Bible Institute in Chicago.
Dwight Moody was influential in preaching the imminence of the Kingdom of God that was so important to Dispensationalism.
Bible colleges prepared ministers who lacked college or seminary experience with intense study of the Bible, often using the Scofield Reference Bible of 1909, a King James Version Bible with detailed notes interpreting passages from a Dispensational perspective.
Although U.S. fundamentalism began in the North, the movement's greatest popular strength was in the South, especially among Southern Baptists, where individuals (and sometimes entire churches) left the convention to join other Baptist denominations perceived as "more conservative" or to join the Independent Baptist movement.
By the late 1920s the national media had identified it with the South, largely ignoring manifestations elsewhere.
By the 1970s Christian fundamentalism was deeply entrenched and concentrated in the U.S. South.
In 1972–1980 General Social Surveys, 65 percent of respondents from the "East South Central" region (comprising Tennessee, Kentucky, Mississippi, and Alabama) self-identified as fundamentalist.
The share of fundamentalists was at or near 50 percent in "West South Central" (Texas to Arkansas) and "South Atlantic" (Florida to Maryland), and at 25 percent or below elsewhere in the country, with the low of nine percent in New England.
The pattern persisted into the 21st century; in 2006–2010 surveys, the average share of fundamentalists in the East South Central Region stood at 58 percent, while, in New England, it climbed slightly to 13 percent.
Many fundamentalists in the 1920s devoted themselves to fighting the teaching of evolution in the nation's schools and colleges, especially by passing state laws that affected public schools.
William Bell Riley took the initiative in the 1925 Scopes Trial to bring in famed politician William Jennings Bryan as an assistant to the local prosecutor, who helped attract national media attention to the trial.
In the half century after the Scopes Trial, fundamentalists had little success in shaping government policy, and generally were defeated in their efforts to reshape the mainline denominations, which refused to join fundamentalist attacks on evolution.
Particularly after the Scopes Trial, liberals saw a division between Christians in favor of the teaching of evolution, whom they viewed as educated and tolerant, and Christians against evolution, whom they viewed as narrow-minded, tribal, obscurantist.
However Edwards (2000) challenges the consensus view among scholars that in the wake of the Scopes trial, fundamentalism retreated into the political and cultural background, a viewpoint evidenced in the movie "Inherit the Wind" and the majority of contemporary historical accounts.
Rather, he argues, the cause of fundamentalism's retreat was the death of its leader, Bryan.
Most fundamentalists saw the trial as a victory and not a defeat, but Bryan's death soon after created a leadership void that no other fundamentalist leader could fill.
Bryan, unlike the other leaders, brought name recognition, respectability, and the ability to forge a broad-based coalition of fundamentalist religious groups to argue for the anti-evolutionist position.
Gatewood (1969) analyzes the transition from the anti-evolution crusade of the 1920s to the creation science movement of the 1960s.
Despite some similarities between these two causes, the creation science movement represented a shift from religious to scientific objections to Darwin's theory.
Creation science also differed in terms of popular leadership, rhetorical tone, and sectional focus.
It lacked a prestigious leader like Bryan, utilized scientific rather than religious rhetoric, and was a product of California and Michigan instead of the South.
Webb (1991) traces the political and legal struggles between strict creationists and Darwinists to influence the extent to which evolution would be taught as science in Arizona and California schools.
After Scopes was convicted, creationists throughout the United States sought similar antievolution laws for their states.
These included Reverends R. S. Beal and Aubrey L. Moore in Arizona and members of the Creation Research Society in California, all supported by distinguished laymen.
They sought to ban evolution as a topic for study, or at least relegate it to the status of unproven theory perhaps taught alongside the biblical version of creation.
Educators, scientists, and other distinguished laymen favored evolution.
This struggle occurred later in the Southwest than in other US areas and persisted through the Sputnik era.
In recent times, the courts have heard cases on whether or not the Book of Genesis's creation account should be taught in science classrooms alongside evolution, most notably in the 2005 federal court case Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District.
Creationism was presented under the banner of intelligent design, with the book Of Pandas and People being its textbook.
The trial ended with the judge deciding that teaching intelligent design in a science class was unconstitutional as it was a religious belief and not science.
The original fundamentalist movement divided along clearly defined lines within conservative evangelical Protestantism as issues progressed.
Many groupings, large and small, were produced by this schism.
Neo-evangelicalism, Reformed and Lutheran Confessionalism, the Heritage movement, and Paleo-Orthodoxy have all developed distinct identities, but none of them acknowledge any more than an historical overlap with the fundamentalist movement, and the term is seldom used of them.
The broader term "evangelical" includes fundamentalists as well as people with similar or identical religious beliefs who do not engage the outside challenge to the Bible as actively.
The latter half of the twentieth century witnessed a surge of interest in organized political activism by U.S. fundamentalists.
Dispensational fundamentalists viewed the 1948 establishment of the state of Israel as an important sign of the fulfillment of biblical prophecy, and support for Israel became the centerpiece of their approach to U.S. foreign policy.
United States Supreme Court decisions also ignited fundamentalists' interest in organized politics, particularly Engel v. Vitale in 1962, which prohibited state-sanctioned prayer in public schools, and Abington School District v. Schempp in 1963, which prohibited mandatory Bible reading in public schools.
By the time Ronald Reagan ran for the presidency in 1980, fundamentalist preachers, like the prohibitionist ministers of the early 20th century, were organizing their congregations to vote for supportive candidates.
Leaders of the newly political fundamentalism included Rob Grant and Jerry Falwell.
Beginning with Grant's American Christian Cause in 1974, Christian Voice throughout the 1970s and Falwell's Moral Majority in the 1980s, the Christian Right began to have a major impact on American politics.
In the 1980s and 1990s, the Christian Right was influencing elections and policy with groups such as the Family Research Council (founded 1981 by James Dobson) and the Christian Coalition (formed in 1989 by Pat Robertson) helping conservative politicians, especially Republicans to win state and national elections.
American evangelist Billy Graham came from a fundamentalist background, but parted company with that movement because of his choice, early in his ministry (1950s), to cooperate with other Christians.
Graham represents a movement that arose within fundamentalism, but has increasingly become distinct from it, known as neo-evangelicalism or New Evangelicalism (a term coined by Harold J. Ockenga, the "Father of New Evangelicalism").
In Canada, fundamentalism was less prominent, but it had an aggressive leader in English-born Thomas Todhunter Shields (1873–1955), who led 80 churches out of the Baptist federation in Ontario in 1927 and formed the Union of regular Baptist churches of Ontario and Quebec.
He was affiliated with the Baptist Bible Union, based in the United States.
His newspaper, The Gospel Witness, reached 30,000 subscribers in 16 countries, giving him an international reputation.
He was one of the founders of the international Council of Christian Churches.
Oswald J. Smith (1889–1986), reared in rural Ontario and educated at Moody Church in Chicago, set up The Peoples Church in Toronto in 1928.
A dynamic preacher and leader in Canadian fundamentalism, Smith wrote 35 books and engaged in missionary work worldwide.
The reverend Billy Graham called him, "the greatest combination pastor, hymn writer, missionary statesman, an evangelist of our time".
Some scholars describe certain Catholics as fundamentalists.
Such Catholics believe in a literal interpretation of Vatican declarations, particularly those pronounced by the Pope, </ref> and believe that individuals who do not agree with the magisterium are condemned by God.
Lutheran scholar Martin E. Marty described Catholic fundamentalists as advocating mass in Latin and mandatory clerical celibacy while opposing ordination of women priests and dismissals of artificial birth control.
The Society of St. Pius X, a product of Marcel Lefebvre, is cited as a stronghold of Catholic fundamentalism.
</ref> Catholic theologian Ronald L. Conte Jr. has described Catholic fundamentalism on the basis of three main features: (1) over-simplification of beliefs, (2) dogmatization of those beliefs, (3) villainization of everyone outside the group.
He applied the term to some persons on the right as well as on the left in Catholicism.
Fundamentalists have been criticized for presenting God "more as a God of judgement and punishment than as a God of love and mercy".
Groups such as the ACLU have brought suit against fundamentalist attempts to teach creationism in public schools, as in the federal court case of Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District.
In the 1930s fundamentalism was viewed by many as a "last gasp" vestige of something in the past.
More recent scholarship has shifted away from that view.
Confessional Lutheran churches reject the fundamentalist position and believe that all biblical teachings are essential: As, according to Lutheran apologists, Martin Luther said:
The Peruvian government is closely allied with the Catholic Church.
Article 50 of the Constitution recognizes the Catholic Church's role as "an important element in the historical, cultural, and moral development of the nation."
Catholic clergy and laypersons receive state remuneration in addition to the stipends paid to them by the Church.
This applies to the country's 52 bishops, as well as to some priests whose ministries are located in towns and villages along the borders.
In addition each diocese receives a monthly institutional subsidy from the Government.
An agreement signed with the Vatican in 1980 grants the Catholic Church special status in Peru.
The Catholic Church receives preferential treatment in education, tax benefits, immigration of religious workers, and other areas, in accordance with the agreement.
So Roman Catholicism could be considered the main religion of Peru.
See also the following: Roman Catholicism in Peru; Catholic university with Partial list of Catholic universities in Peru; and Lord of Miracles, Peruvian religious festival.
Although the Constitution states that there is freedom of religion, the law mandates that all schools, public and private, impart religious education as part of the curriculum throughout the education process (primary and secondary).
Catholicism is the only religion taught in public schools.
In addition, Catholic religious symbols are found in all government buildings and public places.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has seen rapid growth in Peru, and claims more than 480,000 members in Peru.
There are currently 766 congregations of the church that meet in Peru.
There is currently only one LDS temple in Peru, located at La Molina in Lima.
However, Church leaders announced the building of a second temple in Trujillo on December 13, 2008, as well as a third temple to be built in Arequipa, announced October 6, 2012.
Buddhism was introduced to Peru in 1899 when the ship Sakura Maru arrived at Callao, Peru, with 790 people from Japan.
Japanese, Chinese, and Korean immigration to Peru during the 19th and 20th Century brought Mahayana Buddhism to Peru, and followers of that style of Buddhism remain largely concentrated within those ethnic groups.
While Mahayana remains the largest school of Buddhism in Peru, other schools such as the Diamond form have begun to spread so that Peru has more than 50,000 practicing Buddhists.
The Bahá'í Faith in Peru begins with references to Peru in Bahá'í literature as early as 1916, with the first Bahá'ís visiting as early as 1919.
A functioning community wasn't founded in Peru until the 1930s with the beginning of the arrival of coordinated pioneers from the United States which progressed into finding national Peruvian converts and achieved an independent national community in 1961.
The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 41,000 Bahá'ís in 2005.
The statistics for Islam in Peru estimate a total Muslim population of 5,000, largely based in the capital of Lima, Peru; a number which has remained static since 1980.
Introduced in 2001, by Seax Gesith Ariel Phoenice, Witan of the Mimir's Well Seax Coven Perú.
Today two covens exist in Lima city as well a coven in Arequipa City and another in Tacna City Bob.
Michael (Dahulich) is an Orthodox bishop in the Orthodox Church in America Diocese of New York and New Jersey.
He is the former dean of St. Tikhon's Orthodox Theological Seminary in South Canaan, Pennsylvania, and serves there as Associate Professor of New Testament and Ethics.
Michael entered the clergy through the American Carpatho-Russian Orthodox Diocese, being ordained to the priesthood by Bishop John (Martin) in 1973.
He served as Vice-Chancellor and as secretary to two bishops.
He also was Director of Religious Education of the Johnstown deanery and taught at the Christ the Saviour Seminary.
Michael joined the faculty of St. Tikhon's Orthodox Theological Seminary in South Canaan in 1994. in Theology from Christ the Saviour Seminary in Johnstown, Pennsylvania; a B.A.
in Philosophy from St. Vincent College in Latrobe, Pennsylvania; and an M.A.
and Ph.D. in Theology from Duquesne University in Pittsburgh.
He is also studying Business at Villanova University.
On September 22, 2009, Michael was elected as the bishop of OCA's newly reconstituted Diocese of New York and New Jersey.
On October 24 of that year, he was tonsured a rassophore monk by Metr.
Jonah at St. Tikhon's Orthodox Monastery in preparation for his consecration to the episcopacy.
On December 15, 2009, by a decision of the Holy Synod, Michael was appointed administrator of the Diocese of New York and New Jersey, a position he assumed effective January 1, 2010, allowing him to begin assuming the everyday running of the diocese, pending his consecration, which took place on May 8, 2010, in Ss.
Peter and Paul Orthodox Church in Jersey City, New Jersey.
The son of Ann (Rosics) and the late Peter Dahulich, Michael was born in Johnson City, N.Y., on August 29, 1950.
He grew up in Binghamton, N.Y., and has one brother, retired US Air Force Captain George Dahulich, who presently works for Lockheed Martin and lives in Centreville, Va.; and a sister, Barbara Knighton, who lives in Binghamton and works as a secretary at the State University of New York at Binghamton.
He was baptized in the Orthodox faith as an infant at St. Michael's Church in Binghamton, where his parents had been married in 1948.
His father was a convert from the Byzantine Catholic Church, and his mother was Orthodox.
From the age of ten until he graduated from college and went to Seminary, Michael served as an altar boy under the tutelage of his pastor, Fr.
He attended Binghamton Central High School in 1967.
His senior paper was a biography of Ecumenical Patriarch Athenagoras.
He graduated two years later from Broome Community College, and attended Christ the Saviour Seminary in Johnstown.
He completed his theological studies there in December 1972, having been mentored by Bishop John of Nyssa.
While a student at the Seminary, he met Deborah Sandak, a parishioner of Christ the Saviour Cathedral in Johnstown.
They were engaged on the Feast of the Protection of the Theotokos in 1972 and were married on January 21, 1973 in the Johnstown Cathedral.
He was ordained by Bishop John, first to the Diaconate on February 3, 1973, in St. Peter the Apostle Chapel in Johnstown; and then to the Holy Priesthood the following day, in Christ the Saviour Cathedral.
Father Michael assumed his first parish assignment at SS.
Peter and Paul Church in Homer City, Pa., a small mission community which had never had a full-time priest, on Sunday, February 18, 1973.
Two days later, en route to dinner at his best friend’s home in Jenners, Pa., he and his wife were in a car accident; she was killed instantly, and he was hospitalized for three months.
In June 1973 he returned to serve the Homer City parish, while living at Christ the Saviour Seminary.
Bishop John decided it best for him to pursue further studies after the stress of his wife's death, reasoning that he "did best in the classroom".
The bishop applied for Michael's admission and funded his education personally.
Over the next few years, Michael attended St. Vincent College in Latrobe, Pa., graduating with a degree in philosophy, and Duquesne University in Pittsburgh, graduating with a Master of Arts in Theology and later a Ph.D. in Theology, with a concentration in New Testament studies.
Upon his graduation from St. Vincent College, he was named Prefect of Student Life at Christ the Saviour Seminary, a position he held for five years, until SS.
Peter and Paul Church achieved parish status, and Michael became its first full-time pastor.
He was assigned as instructor of Ethics at the Seminary, where he also taught Scripture and Homiletics, until he was transferred from the area in 1985.
During his Ph.D. studies at Duquesne, he was also adjunct lecturer, teaching Scripture and Eastern Orthodoxy in the Theology Department at the university.
For nearly 13 years Michael served SS.
Peter and Paul Church, during which time it grew from 60 to more than 130 members, and from mission to parish status.
The church building was brick-encased, its interior was decorated, and a rectory was built in this period.
During that time Michael also served as Religious Education Director for the Johnstown Deanery and as Associate Editor of The Church Messenger.
In 1982 he was elevated to the rank of Archpriest, and named Vice-Chancellor of the Diocese.
In addition, until Bishop John's death in 1984, Michael served as his personal secretary.
He continued as Vice-Chancellor and Secretary to Bishop Nicholas of Amissos, until December 1985, when he was transferred to Holy Ghost Church in Phoenixville, Pa., where he served as pastor for 16 years.
During that time, the parish grew from 256 to nearly 450 members, including more than 100 children.
Several improvements in the temple and the 20-acre facility were undertaken, and more than half a million dollars was raised toward the building of a new educational facility.
A pre-school and day care was established, with the intent to grow into an Orthodox school.
During that time, Michael was also named to the Study and Planning Commission and the Ecumenical Commission of the Standing Conference of the Canonical Orthodox Bishops in the Americas (SCOBA).
He served for more than a decade as the Dean of the Mid-Atlantic Deanery parishes of the Carpatho-Russian Diocese, and Vice-Chairman of the Harvest 2000 Committee on Missions, Evangelization and Diocesan Growth.
He also edited the Diocesan Prayerbook, Come To Me.
He was named Protopresbyter in 1998 by the Ecumenical Patriarchate, and elevated to that rank by Metropolitan Nicholas of Amissos, in his parish in Phoenixville.
In 1993, Michael was asked by Archbishop Herman to teach at St. Tikhon’s Seminary, where he has served on the faculty to this day.
In 2001 he was released from the Carpatho-Russian Diocese to the Orthodox Church in America, and came to serve full-time at St. Tikhon’s Seminary, first as Administrative Dean (2001–2002) and then as Dean (2002–present).
His field of expertise in teaching is New Testament, and he has also taught Old Testament courses, Homiletics, Pastoral Theology, and Ethics at St. Tikhon’s.
Michael was part of the team that earned national accreditation for the Seminary from the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada.
He helped work on a revision of the curriculum for the Master of Divinity program, and served as Editor of the Tikhonaire; The Spirit of St. Tikhon's; By the Waters; and St. Tikhon's Theological Journal.
He also works as director of recruitment, development and fund-raising at the school.
Also during this time, he served as a member of the Board of Theological Education of the Orthodox Church in America, OCA Representative to the National Advisory Board of the American Bible Society, a member (and former national secretary) of the Orthodox Theological Society of America, and a member of the Advisory Board of the Orthodox Christian Association of Medicine, Psychology and Religion (OCAMPR).
During his Deanship scholarships for deserving students and assistance for married students and their families have been provided.
Michael has published a number of articles in theological journals, magazines and newspapers.
He has had a recurring column in The Orthodox Herald on “Sobornost.” He has presented several papers, delivered numerous talks, lectures, and keynote addresses, and led many seminars and retreats in schools and parishes throughout the country, as well as teaching week-long seminars in Scripture in both Brazil and India.
On August 24, 2009, Father Michael was selected as a nominee for Bishop of the Diocese of New York and New Jersey, by clergy and lay delegates at a Special Diocesan Assembly.
On September 22, the Holy Synod of Bishops of the Orthodox Church in America elected him to the episcopacy, for the Diocese of New York and New Jersey.
Michael was tonsured as a Riasophor Monk on October 23, 2009 at St. Tikhon's Monastery Church by Metropolitan Jonah.
He was then tonsured into the Lesser Schema at the Monastery Church on Holy Tuesday, March 30, 2010, by Jonah.
The following day he was elevated to the rank of Archimandrite and awarded the mitre by the Metropolitan.
Michael was consecrated to the episcopacy on May 8, 2010 in the Orthodox Church of St. Peter and Paul, Jersey City, New Jersey.
Jafar Shahidi known as Seyed Jafar Shahidi ( ) (March 21, 1919 in Borujerd, Iran – January 13, 2008 in Tehran) was a distinguished scholar of the Persian language and literature and a renowned historian of Islam.
Born in Boroujerd, Iran, Shahidi dedicated his life to Persian studies, acting as the director of the Dehkhoda Dictionary Institute and International Centre for Persian language, serving as the Dean of the Faculty of Literature and Humanities at the University of Tehran (UT) and mastering the fields of jurisprudence and Islamic history.
As a member of the Faculty of Literature and Humanities at the University of Tehran, Shahidi specialized in the study of Persian language and literature as well as Islamic theology, jurisprudence, and history.
Shahidi was a prominent disciple of Ali Akbar Dehkhoda and Badiozzaman Forouzanfar.
He served as a seminary in Qom and Najaf under notable figures such as Tabatabaei, Seyed Hossein Boroujerdi, S. Khoi A. under whom he attained his degree in ijtihad.
He is most notable for his works on the Dehkhoda encyclopedic dictionary of the Persian language and his research in Islamic history and religion.
In his later years, he served as the President of the Dehkhoda Institute and founder of the International Center for Persian Studies.
Seyed Jafar Shahidi was born in the town of Boroujerd, Iran.
His father, Mohammad Sajjadi was a leading Iranian scholar who died shortly after the birth of his son.
Spending the first few years of his education in his hometown, Shahidi continued his academics in the capital city of Tehran.
In 1941, he moved to the town of Najaf, Iraq to pursue his studies in the field of Islamic jurisprudence and successfully surpassed the highest levels of education to receive the title of mujtahid.
From there onward, Shahidi moved to Qom, Iran where he was mentored by the leading scholars, most notably Ayatollah Boroujerdi.
Falling ill, Shahidi resorted to the translation of Arabic in Iran alongside Doctor Sanjabi (the then Minister of Culture).
He later received an offer to teach at the Abu Muslem school.
Encounters with Dr. Mohammad Moin permitted his close relationship with Ali Akbar Dehkhoda who later entrusted Shahidi as the director of the Dehkhoda Institute.
In a letter to the then Minister of Culture, Ali-Akbar Dehkhoda wrote, "Shahidi is rare in his abilities as a scholar," noting that he wished to limit his hours at the institute from twenty-two to eight in order for Shahidi to be able to continue his teachings as well.
Dr. Shahidi played a pivotal role in the formation and compilation of the second largest Persian lexicon, known as the Moeen Encyclopedia.
Shahidi was entrusted with the completion and publishing of the text upon Dr. Mohammad Moin's death in 1971.
In 1991, Dr. Shahidi donated his residential house to the Narmak Municipality of Tehran where it remains today as the Dr. Shahidi Public Library.
Over 100 articles written in Persian and Arabic include but are not limited to: Translations dually translated in the languages of Arabic, Turkish, German, and Greek include but are not limited to:
James Amon "Jim" Garrison is an American author, theologian and founder of the State of the World Forum.
He is Founder and President of Ubiquity University.
Jim Garrison serves as founding President and CEO of Ubiquity University.
This university is dedicated to providing affordable education at the graduate, undergraduate, and public education levels worldwide.
Garrison served as founding President of Wisdom University from 2005 till 2012.
The university is now the Wisdom School of Graduate Studies within Ubiquity University providing Masters and Doctoral degrees in the world wisdom traditions.
Garrison served as founder and President of the State of the World Forum from 1995 till 2012, a San Francisco based non-profit institution created to establish a global network of leaders dedicated to creating a more sustainable global civilization.
With President Gorbachev as its Convening Chairman, the Forum convened leaders from around the world and a spectrum of disciplines to its annual and regional conferences; creates action-oriented strategic initiatives, and catalyzed the creation of several independent ongoing organizations.
Prior to this, Garrison was founder of the Radiation and Health Information Service in 1978; founder of East West Reach in 1980; and he served as Executive Director of the Esalen Institute Soviet American Exchange Program from 1985 till 1990.
In 1991, he founded the International Foreign Policy Institute with Eduard Shevardnadze.
At the request of Mr. Gorbachev, Garrison founded and served as President of the Gorbachev Foundation/ USA in 1992, which set the stage for the establishment of the State of the World Forum in 1995.
Garrison was born in China of Baptist missionary parents in 1951 and grew up in Taiwan.
After returning to the US in 1965, he began college at Pepperdine University (1969–70), attended the University of Tel Aviv in 1972 to study Middle Eastern Affairs, and received a B.A.
magna cum laude in World History from the Santa Clara University (1973).
He then received a double M.T.S.
in Christology and History of Religion from Harvard Divinity School (1975); and a Ph.D. in Philosophical Theology from Cambridge University (1982).
Garrison published his first book in 1980 called The Plutonium Culture (SCM).
This was followed by The Darkness of God: Theology After Hiroshima (SCM/1982); The Russian Threat: Myths and Realities (Gateway Books/ 1983); The New Diplomats (Resurgence Press/1984); Civilization and the Transformation of Power (Paraview Press/2000); and America As Empire (Barrett Koehler/2004).
His current book, not yet published, is on Climate Change and the Primordial Mind.
Veselin Čajkanović (Serbian Cyrillic: Веселин Чајкановић; 1881 in Belgrade &ndash; 1946) was a Serbian classical scholar, religious history scholar, and Greek and Latin translator.
Čajkanović studied classical philology at Belgrade's Grande école (Velika škola), and later at the University of Leipzig and University of Munich (where he took his Master of Arts degree).
In 1908 he became a Latin lecturer at the Belgrade University School of Philosophy and published his MA dissertation, Quaestionum paroemiographicarum capita selecta, in Tübingen.
Čajkanović fought in both Balkan Wars and in World War I.
He retreated with the Serbian Army through Albania in face of the 1915 anti-Serbian offensive of the Central Powers.
Later he was at the Thessaloniki Front, where he described his activities in his Autobiography as "defending, together with other Balkan Christians, his country from foreign conquerors."
Čajkanović was awarded the Order of the White Eagle with Swords and the Légion d'honneur.
From 1921 on he taught the comparative history of religion at the Faculty of Theology in Belgrade.
Said Marko Zivkovic in the Anthropology of East Europe Review, "Cajkanovic was one who brought the latest philosophical, historical, ethnographic and comparative methodologies of inter war Europe to bear on his life project of reconstructing from the pre-Christian, pagan Serbian mythology and religions.
Cajkanovic did most of his work between the wars in Belgrade where he was a professor at the University and a member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts.
"He did not leave a line of successors, as he might have done, being in many respects a figure comparable to what Mircea Eliade was in Romania."
The communists who took over after the war did not approve of Čajkanović's scholarship, and even to this day, most of his work is still in manuscript form.
Veselin Čajkanović taught at the Faculty of Theology of the University of Belgrade throughout German occupation of Yugoslavia, and when the provisional government of the so-called Democratic Federal Yugoslavia put Communists in power, he was so engrossed with his work that he did not notice what went around him.
Consequently, life during the anarchistic upheaval, which turned the existence of a non-proletarian into hell on earth, was comparatively easy for him.
He may not have been himself troubled about gunfire in the streets, but he began to fear for the safety of his family in such uncertain conditions.
Above all a professor who was relatively uninterested in politics and causes, Čajkanović certainly realized, as did his compatriots and fellow-professors, Slobodan Jovanović, Dimitrije Najdanović, Miloš Mladenović, Đoko Slijepčević and others, who left the country in time, that an environment of occupation, revolution and civil war was—as Čajkanović put it -- "hardly the time for teaching."
Yet he taught privately just the same since the University of Belgrade was forced to close down in 1941.
And so, it was not long before he was dismissed by the Communists as "an undesirable war criminal" for teaching while under Nazi occupation.
It came as an unbearable shock to a sensitive scholar like himself.
He fell ill never to recover his health again.
He died a year later, in 1946.
He authored several books, while numerous studies and articles remained scattered in various publications.
His texts were published mainly in Serbian, Latin, and German and include: Čajkanović's collected works, edited by Vojislav Đurić, were published in five volumes in 1994 in Belgrade.
Marko Zivkovic, Translator, University of Chicago, "Classics in East European Ethnography Series: 'Magical Sitting' by Veselin Cajkanovic," Newslatter of the East European Anthropology Group, Spring 1996, Vol.
14, No.
1, Robert Rotenberg, Editor, Department of Sociology, DePaul University, Chicago, Il.
Annalee Stewart (1900-1988) was one of the first ordained female ministers of the U.S. Methodist Church and was the first woman to be a guest chaplain for the U.S. House of Representatives.
She was a peace activist and served as president of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom (WILPF) between 1946 and 1950.
Annalee Hayes Kyger was born on February 17, 1900 in Bloomington, Illinois to Herbert E. Kyger and Iva Belle Hayes.
She graduated from Illinois Wesleyan University in 1921 and went on to study at Boston University School of Theology, Colgate Rochester Theological Seminary, and Union Theological Seminary in New York City.
On 17 April 1931 received full ordination as a Methodist clergy, becoming one of the first ordained female ministers of the Methodist Church in the US.
In 1924, she became involved with the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom (WILPF), serving in various capacities until the 1960s.
She was Chicago chapter president in 1943 and then National President between 1946 and 1950, Legislative Secretary from 1949 to 1964 and again in 1966, and served as Legislative and Branch Liaison between 1964 and 1966.
Stewart became Director of Religious Education at the Centre Methodist Church of Malden, Massachusetts between 1937 and 1943.
During World War II, Stewart and her family moved to Chicago and until the early 1950s they traveled back and forth between Washington, D.C. and Chicago.
On 11 June 1948, Stewart became the first woman to lead a prayer for the U.S. House of Representatives and as late as 1967 had been the only female guest chaplain of the House.
Stewart actively lobbied against war, co-chairing the WILPF Committee to Oppose Conscription of Women for World War II, visiting Congress to speak against the Korean War, as well as the Vietnam War, and calling on scientists to stop germ warfare and nuclear tests, urging total disarmament.
Stewart traveled widely participating in conferences around the world speaking for world peace, attending seven international world congresses and advocating for a strong United Nations.
In 1947, she was one of the WILPF delegates to the Primer Congreso Interamericano de Mujeres held in Guatemala City.
In the decade after the end of World War II, she made five trips to Europe, traveled to Palestine, traveled throughout the United States, as well as fact finding missions like the 1965 clergy visit to Vietnam and trips to India, Israel, Japan, Poland, and the USSR.
In 1966, Stewart received a Distinguished Alumni Award from Illinois Wesleyan University and received an honorary Doctor of Humanities degree from the school in 1967.
Stewart died in November 1988 in Middlesex, Massachusetts.
She had been married to Alexander Stewart, who was also a Methodist minister.
They had two daughters and a son.
The Newcastle Scholarship is an annual prize awarded at Eton College for the highest performance in a series of special written examinations taken over the course of a week.
It is Eton's most prestigious prize and was for over a century (until it changed form in 1976) considered the premier school prize examination in England for pupils of the Classics (Greek and Latin language and literature) and Divinity (the Bible scriptures).
It was instituted and first awarded in 1829, thanks to the initiative and benefaction of Henry Pelham-Clinton, 4th Duke of Newcastle-under-Lyme.
The Statutes, recorded in 1841, state: 'The design and object of these Scholarships is to promote and encourage a Religious education and sound and useful Learning in general among the Scholars of Eton School, including particularly accurate Scholarship in Greek and Roman literature but most especially and principally to inculcate a thorough knowledge of the Evidence, Doctrines and Precepts of the Christian Religion.'
The winner of the Newcastle Scholarship was awarded a cash prize of £250, a considerable sum in 1829, while the runner-up received a Gold Medal.
Originally a series of up to twelve examinations in the ancient languages and in knowledge of Biblical texts, the Scholarship was split into two, becoming one Prize for Divinity and one for Classics, in 1977.
Since 1987 the Newcastle Scholarship has been an examination primarily in philosophy and ethics.
Distinguished winners of the Newcastle Scholarship in its original form include Sir Edward Shepherd Creasy (1831), WR Inge (1879), Patrick Shaw-Stewart (1905), Quintin Hogg, Baron Hailsham of St Marylebone (1925), Douglas Hurd (1947) and William Waldegrave (1965, currently Provost of Eton College); those who have also become professional Classicists include Roger Mynors (1922), Charles Willink (1946), Adrian Hollis (1958), Richard Jenkyns (1966) and Armand D’Angour (1976).
Since 1988 it has been an examination in philosophical theology, moral theory and applied ethics.
Candidates sit two three-hour papers after Long Leave in the Lent Half.
Each paper consists of about 12 questions divided into two sections.
Candidates must answer three questions in each paper, at least one chosen from each section.
Some of the most distinguished theologians and philosophers in the United Kingdom have been invited to examine the Newcastle Scholarship.
In addition to setting the papers and marking the scripts, they have to choose a set book on a theme of their choice upon which the candidates are examined.
The examiner interviews up to six candidates (The Newcastle Select) and from these candidates he/she chooses three boys who are nominated as 'winners' during the Reading Over.
"KS": King's Scholar; "OS": Oppidan Scholar; "MS": Music Scholar; "ME": Music Exhibitioner; "ma": the elder of two siblings attending the school.
Piedmont International University is a private Bible College and Graduate School in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
Originally called Piedmont Bible Institute (and later Piedmont Bible College and Piedmont Baptist College), the school changed its name in 2012 to its current name to reflect its heritage and expansion.
The school is located near downtown Winston-Salem between the historic district of Old Salem and the newly constructed minor-league baseball stadium.
Its current President is Dr. Charles Petitt, a former church planter and missionary to St. Vincent.
Piedmont is accredited by the Transnational Association of Christian Colleges and Schools and maintains membership in the American Association of Christian Colleges and Seminaries, and is seeking accreditation from the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
In 1945, Charles Stevens and a group of North Carolina Baptist leaders founded Piedmont Bible Schools, Inc. and opened Piedmont Bible Institute.
Three years later, the institute added two years of junior college.
Although the academy associated with Piedmont Bible Schools, Inc. was discontinued in 1952, the Bible institute and the college continued.
In 1956, Piedmont completed the accreditation requirements of the Accrediting Association of Bible Institutes and Bible Colleges (now The Association for Biblical Higher Education).
Their acceptance allowed Religious Education and Theology bachelor's degrees to be awarded, starting in 1957, with the acceptance of the State Department of Education.
The college added a graduate program in 1994 and joined the Transnational Association of Christian Colleges and Schools (TRACS) one year later.
In 2004, the college merged with Spurgeon Baptist Bible College of Mulberry, Florida to create Piedmont’s Spurgeon School of Online Education with several undergraduate and graduate programs available online in their entirety including a master's degree in Biblical Studies offered online in Spanish.
The accreditation of two international branch campuses in restricted access nations sprang from partnerships with nationals in Asia and the Middle East.
A 2008 merger with Atlantic Baptist Bible College of Chester, Virginia led to the establishment of the Atlantic Scholarship for Ministry Training.
Foothills Christian College also merged with then Piedmont Baptist College and Graduate Schools in 2010.
In 2012 Piedmont officially changed their name from Piedmont Baptist College and Graduate Schools to Piedmont International University.
In March 2015, it was announced that, as of May 1, 2015, Tennessee Temple University would dissolve and merge with Piedmont.
The Missionary Union of Priests and Religious is a spiritual apostolate created by Father Paolo Manna, a missionary who served in Myanmar.
Its goal is to increase awareness of the Church's worldwide mission among people engaged in pastoral ministry.
It is one of four Pontifical Mission Societies of the Roman Catholic Church.
In early nineteenth century France, Pauline Jaricot founded the Society for the Propagation of the Faith to provide financial support to the Churches foreign missions.
Collecting a sous (about a penny) at a time, two thirds of its first collection in 1822 went to support the diocese of Louisiana, which extended from the Florida Keys to Canada.
The remaining third went to China.
In 2008, the Church in the United States marked the 100th anniversary of no longer being considered “mission territory” dependent on financial help from the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples.
In 1839 Charles de Forbin-Janson, Bishop of Nancy in France, toured the United States, visiting New Orleans, Baltimore, New York and Canada.
Upon his return to France, in 1843, he established the Association of the Holy Childhood appealing to the children of France to reach out to help the children of the American Missions and China.
In 1889, Jeanne Bigard founded the Society of St. Peter the Apostle for the training of local clergy and religious in mission dioceses.
Paolo Manna was born in 1872 in Avellino, Italy.
In 1891 entered the Theology Seminary of the Institute for Foreign Missions in Milan, and on May 19, 1894 he was ordained a priest.
In 1895 he was sent to in Burma (Myanmar), where he worked until 1907, when, suffering from tuberculosis, he was forced to return home to Italy.
He spent the rest of his life promoting the work of the missions, relaunching in Italy the Mission Societies for the Propagation of the Faith and Holy Childhood and promoted other initiatives for missionary cooperation.
In 1916 Father Manna, established the Missionary Union of Priests and Religious to promote awareness of the Missions.
The Union spread rapidly after Pope Benedict XV, in his 1919 encyclical Maximum Illud, recommended its presence in every diocese .
The Missionary Union of Priests and Religious is a spiritual apostolate.
Its purpose is to educate and inform priests, Religious men and women, pastoral leaders and those responsible for catechesis and religious education so that they may better inspire others to share their faith and to be missionaries themselves.
In the United States the work of the various mission societies is coordinated by the Pontifical Mission Societies in the United States, headquartered in Manhattan, with representation in each diocese appointed by the bishop.
Similar Pontifical Mission Societies exist in 120 countries.
In many countries, the success of the three other missionary societies is linked to the vitality of the Missionary Union.
Mater Dei Institute of Education ( ) is a linked college of Dublin City University since 1999, located in Drumcondra, Dublin City, Ireland, near Croke Park, on the site of what was formerly Clonliffe College, the Roman Catholic Seminary for the Archdiocese of Dublin.
The college was founded by Archbishop John Charles McQuaid in 1966 as an institute for the training and formation for teachers of religion in secondary schools in the Republic of Ireland.
Clonliffe was also affiliated to the Angelicum in Rome that offered a three year course leading to a diploma and a four year course leading to a Masters; Fr.
Joseph Carroll was its first president.
The foundation of the college was a response to the challenges posed by the Second Vatican Council.
It has a Roman Catholic ethos and currently has approximately 800 students.
The college offers several undergraduate courses, primarily in secondary religious education and specializes with its postgraduate courses (including Doctorates) in religion, the humanities and education, and faith and culture as well as theology and philosophy in dialogue.
In 1999 Mater Dei Institute of Education became a College of Dublin City University.
In 2002 it has established an Irish Studies Department and is offering a BA programme in Religious Studies and Irish Studies.
The Institute sees this as a contribution to the understanding that is engendered by the Good Friday Agreement.
The Institute also has links with colleges in Northern Ireland, France, Italy and the USA.
Mater Dei partners with the Methodist Edgehill Theological College (Belfast) co-offering such as a BTh exploring faith together.
In 2008 the relationship linking Dublin City University with All Hallows, St. Patrick's College of Education, Drumcondra and Mater Dei Institute of Education was revised.
The Institute is engaged in the Erasmus student exchange programme with other colleges in Austria, Belgium, England, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Malta, Portugal and Spain.
Mater Dei is also famous as the birthplace of rock/pop duo The Moceans who took the Dublin music scene by storm from 2009–13 - their debut hit single 'Only You Know' is the unofficial anthem of the Institute
John Dennis Corriveau, OFM Cap (born July 27, 1941) is a Canadian prelate of the Roman Catholic Church.
He serves as the sixth and current Bishop of Nelson.
John Corriveau was born on the shores of Lake Huron in Zurich, Ontario.
He was initially attracted to the diocesan priesthood, but decided to enter the religious life like one of his cousins (who was a Redemptorist).
He attended the Capuchin minor seminary in Blenheim, and then went to the United States to continue his education.
He studied at the Capuchin novitiate in Cumberland, Maryland, St. Fidelis College (1960–1962) in Herman, Pennsylvania, and Capuchin College in Washington, D.C. (1962–1966), from where he obtained his MA in religious education.
Corriveau made his temporary vows as a Capuchin on July 14, 1960, and his perpetual profession exactly three years later, on July 14, 1963.
Following his was priestly ordination on October 23, 1965, he served as a lecturer and the prefect of discipline at Mount Alverno Minor Seminary in Toronto.
Corriveau was elected Councillor of the vice-province of Central Canada in 1969; during his three-year-long tenure as Councillor, he also held the office of Guardian and Chaplain for the Christian Brothers.
He was elected Minister of the vice-province being in both 1971 and 1974.
He then served as President of the Conference of Capuchins of North America until 1975, whence he became pastor of St. Philip Neri Parish in Toronto.
In 1980, he was nominated to serve on the General Council of the Capuchins.
After a sabbatical year, he was once again elected Provincial of Central Canada in 1989.
During that same year, he began a year's study of pastoral theology at Berkeley in California.
Corriveau was the worldwide head of his religious order as the seventy-first Minister General of the Capuchins from 1994 to 2006; although his headquarters were located in Rome, he travelled for the majority of the year.
He once said of the post, "The general minister is not so much an authority figure but a charismatic figure representing our contact with St. Francis".
Upon his return to Canada, he began work at St. Francis' Table, a restaurant for the poor in Parkdale, where the Capuchin priest welcomed guests and served as a waiter, whilst doing parish work on weekends.
On November 30, 2007, he was appointed the sixth Bishop of Nelson, British Columbia, by Pope Benedict XVI.
Corriveau received his episcopal consecration on January 30, 2008 from Archbishop Luigi Ventura, with Archbishop Raymond Roussin, SM, and Bishop Eugene Cooney serving as co-consecrators, in the Cathedral of Nelson.
He was formally installed as Bishop on January 31.
Bishop Corriveau took as his episcopal motto, "Pacificans per sanguinem crucis eius" (Colossians 1:20), or "Making peace through the blood of His cross."
John Folda (born August 8, 1961) is a Catholic bishop in the United States.
He is the eighth bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Fargo in North Dakota.
John Thomas Folda was born in Omaha, Nebraska.
He graduated from Archbishop Ryan High School and attended the University of Nebraska and earned bachelor of arts, master of arts and master of divinity degrees from St. Charles Borromeo Seminary.
Folda was ordained a priest for the Diocese of Lincoln on May 27, 1989.
He received a Licentiate in Sacred Theology from the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas (Angelicum) in Rome in 1993.
After ordination, Folda served as a curate at the Cathedral of the Risen Christ and taught religion at St. Pius X High School in Lincoln, Nebraska from 1989–1993.
From 1993-1995 he served as the pastor of St. Paulinus Church in Syracuse, Nebraska and Holy Trinity Church in Avoca, Nebraska.
At the same time he was a teacher and counselor at Lourdes Central Catholic High School in Nebraska City.
Beginning in 1995 he served as the pastor of St. Leo Church in Palmyra, Nebraska and St. Martin Church in Douglas, Nebraska.
Folda was named the diocesan director of religious education and co-vicar for religious in 1997.
The following year he was named the spiritual director at St. Gregory the Great Seminary in Seward, Nebraska, and was named the school's rector in 1998.
Pope Benedict XVI named him a Chaplain of His Holiness, with the title "Monsignor" in 2007.
Pope Francis named Folda the bishop of Fargo on April 8, 2013.
He was consecrated bishop on June 19, 2013 and installed in the Cathedral of St. Mary in Fargo.
Archbishop John Clayton Nienstedt of Saint Paul and Minneapolis was the principal consecrator.
Archbishop Samuel Joseph Aquila of Denver, the previous bishop of Fargo, and Bishop James D. Conley of Lincoln were the co-consecrators.
William John McNaughton, M.M.,나길모 굴리엘모, (born December 7, 1926) is an American-born Catholic missionary and bishop.
As a member of the Catholic Foreign Mission Society of America (Maryknoll) he was assigned to missions in South Korea.
He served as the first Bishop of Incheon from 1961 to 2002.
William McNaughton was born in Lawrence, Massachusetts.
He was educated at Central Catholic High School in Lawrence and Maryknoll Seminary in Ossining, New York.
He entered the novitiate for the Catholic Foreign Mission Society of America, or Maryknoll, and professed religious vows on August 30, 1949.
McNaughton earned a Bachelor of Sacred Theology and a Licentiate in Religious Education from the Maryknoll Major Seminary.
He was ordained a priest on June 13, 1953.
After his ordination McNaughton studied the Korean language at Yale University.
He was sent to Korea and was engaged in parish ministry in Chungbuk.
He served on the College of Consultors in the Diocese of Cheongju.
He served as the Vicar General of the same diocese from 1959 to 1960.
Pope John XXIII named McNaughton the Titular Bishop of Thuburbo Minus and Vicar Apostolic of Incheon on June 6, 1961.
William McNaughton was consecrated a bishop on August 24, 1961 by Cardinal Richard Cushing of Boston.
The principal co-consecrators were Bishops John Comber, M.M., the Maryknoll Superior General, and Petrus Canisius van Lierde, O.S.A., the Vicar General of the Vatican State.
A year later on March 10 McNaughton was named the first bishop of the Diocese of Incheon.
He attended all four sessions of the Second Vatican Council (1962-1965).
He held several positions in the Catholic Bishops' Conference of Korea.
McNaughton served as the conference secretary from 1965 to 1981 and as the president of the Committee for Liturgy from 1965 to 1970.
He was a member of the Ecumenical Committee from 1970 to 1973 and its president from 1973 to 1978.
He served as president of the Committee for Catechesis from 1978 to 1984 and as a member of the Episcopal Commission for Clergy and Religious from 1978 to 2002.
Pope John Paul II accepted Bishop McNaughton's resignation as Bishop of Incheon on April 25, 2002.
He retired to his native United States.
Ken Barker is an Australian Roman Catholic priest.
He is the moderator of the Missionaries of God's Love religious congregation and founder of the Young Men of God Movement.
Ken Barker was a born in Murrumburrah, New South Wales in 1948 and grew up in Rye Park, a town of just 287 people near Harden in rural NSW.
He attended the Christian Brothers, St Patrick’s College, Goulburn, NSW, finishing in 1965.
After school he won a Commonwealth Scholarship to Sydney University where he finished two years of physics and maths studies for a science degree.
That was when he realised that being a priest was his true vocation.
He received his training to become a priest from St Columbus Seminary at Springwood, NSW and St Patrick's College, Manly.
He finished a degree in theology, graduating with honours.
He then returned to the University of Sydney and finished his science degree.
He was ordained in 1974 by Archbishop Thomas Vincent Cahill and for the next two years was assistant parish priest in Cootamundra, NSW.
In 1976 he was sent to the US to study at the Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. where he obtained a Ph.D. in religious education.
He travelled to various communities in the US and experienced the charismatic renewal of Catholic life.
He realised then that this was the way he wanted to be involved with the Church and with God.
Back in Australia in 1980, the charismatic renewal movement was also emerging.
Appointed assistant priest to the Cathedral in Canberra and Diocesan Youth Minister, Fr Ken also became a member of the Disciples of Jesus Covenant Community.
In 1985 three young men from the Disciples of Jesus Community approached him independently and said they wanted to become priests.
Fr Ken, along with the three young men, prayed on this matter for more than a year and it gradually became clear the Lord wanted him to form a Brotherhood to evangelise young people and live a life of poverty as Jesus had, and help the poor.
The Brotherhood would have a special love for the Virgin Mary and be dedicated to the heart of Christ.
Discussing this with Archbishop Francis Carroll of Canberra and Goulburn, it was eventually decided Fr Ken would leave his position as assistant priest at the Cathedral and form what was seen as a modified youth ministry and form of diocese priesthood which would be the equivalent of a congregation.
The Missionaries of God's Love (MGL) came into being in 1986 with a base in a suburban house in Canberra.
20 years later, the MGL has more than 40 members, 13 ordained priests, two deacons, 16 at its seminary in Melbourne which is overseen by Fr Chris Ryan.
He is the author of 5 books His Name is Mercy, Becoming Fire, Radical Way of Love, Amazing Love, and the best-selling Young Men Rise Up.
The Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church (Estonian: Eesti Evangeelne Luterlik Kirik, abbreviated EELK) is a Lutheran church in Estonia.
EELC is member of the Lutheran World Federation and belongs to the Community of Protestant Churches in Europe.
It is also a member of the Porvoo Communion, putting it in full communion with the Church of England and other Anglican churches in Europe.
The Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church (EELC) was constituted in 1949, when the previous church hierarchy, Eesti Evangeeliumi Luteriusu Kirik, headed by bishop Johan Kõpp, had escaped to Sweden in 1944.
When the Soviet Union invaded Estonia in 1940, most Christian organizations were dissolved, church property was confiscated, theologians were exiled to Siberia, and religious education programs were outlawed.
World War II later brought devastation to many church buildings.
It was not until 1988 that church activities were renewed when a movement for religious tolerance began in the Soviet Union.
Although women had studied theology at Tartu University in the 1920s and some had sought ordination as priests, it was not until 1967 that the first woman, Laine Villenthal, was ordained.
The Church of Estonia is episcopal in polity, and is currently led by five bishops, including the archbishop who serves as the Primate.
Following the retirement of Andres Põder as archbishop, the current archbishop is Urmas Viilma, consecrated on 2 February 2015.
The Archbishop of the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church Abroad is Andres Taul, also a pastor of the Lutheran Church–Canada.
As of February 2009, the EELC reported approximately 160,000 baptized members and the EELC Abroad (based in Canada) reported approximately 8,000 baptized members.
A previous figure broke down the EELC Abroad into 3,508 members with 12 clergy in the USA and 5,536 members with 11 clergy in Canada.
Eugene Cullen Kennedy (August 28, 1928 &ndash; June 3, 2015) was an American psychologist, syndicated columnist, and a professor emeritus of Loyola University Chicago.
He remained a professor of psychology at the university for several years.
A laicized Catholic priest and a long-time observer of the Roman Catholic Church he wrote over fifty books on psychology, religion, the Catholic Church, and THE psychology of religion, and also published three novels, Father's Day (1981), Queen Bee (1982), and Fixes (1989).
He wrote a column for the Religious News Service, distributed by the New York Times syndicate.
Kennedy was a noted dissident in the Catholic Church and argued for a "post-clerical, de-centered priesthood, in which the adjustments to celibacy are varied."
For Kennedy, the priesthood must be changed to include "the love and understanding of a specific woman, or, in some cases, a certain man."
Eugene Cullen Kennedy was born in Syracuse, New York, on August 18, 1928, to second generation Irish parents, James Donald Kennedy and Gertrude Veronica Cullen.
Kennedy received a bachelor of arts degree from Maryknoll College in 1950, followed by a bachelor's degree in sacred theology from Maryknoll Seminary in New York City in 1953, a master's in religious education in 1954, and both an MA (1958) and PhD (1962) from The Catholic University of America.
Kennedy joined the order of Maryknoll missionaries and was ordained Roman Catholic priest in 1955.
He began his teaching career at Maryknoll College as instructor that same year.
He joined in the clinical psychology department at Chicago's Loyola University in 1969, and eventually became professor and chairman of the department, retiring as professor emeritus.
He first met Sara C. Charles, a Maryknoll nun and psychiatrist, in mid 1960s, while he was hospitalized in New York owing to a pericardial infection.
After over a decade of friendship they married in September 1977 and authored several books together.
The couple lived in Michigan.
The Winn Professorship of Ecclesiastical History is an endowed chair at Harvard Divinity School.
It was established in 1877 by a bequest from Jonathan Bowers Winn (1811-1873), a public-minded and prosperous business man in Woburn, Massachusetts.
Jonathan Bowers Winn, who died in 1873, had left $100,000 in a trust for his son, which would transfer to the "Unitarian Denomination" should his son die "without issue," which in fact happened two years later.
As a result, the sum was to be disposed of under the direction of Edward Everett Hale (1822-1909), a Unitarian minister, and Andrew P. Peabody (1811-1893), Plummer Professor of Christian Morals at Harvard Divinity School.
The two concluded that a professorship in Ecclesiastical History at the Unitarian Harvard Divinity School would be a worthy cause, and petitioned the Supreme Judicial Court for permission to use a portion of the funds to that end.
The court granted the petition in 1877, concluding that since "Harvard College is the seminary of higher education to which young men from Unitarian families chiefly resort; and whereas the Divinity School of Harvard College was founded by Unitarians, is supported mainly by funds contributed by Unitarians ... and is the principal seminary in the country for the education of Unitarian ministers; and whereas Ecclesiastical History is an essential department of study for Unitarians, as well as other ministers, and is of the highest value in the religious education of Unitarians, as of all other youth," an endowed chair would be a suitable use for a portion of the funds.
It directed the two "to pay over the sum of forty-three thousand five hundred dollars to the President and Fellows of Harvard College to be by them held in trust for the establishment of a professorship to be called the Winn Professorship of Ecclesiastical History."
The duties of the holder of the chair were detailed as follows: "The Professor, when appointed, shall first of all give such instruction in Ecclesiastical History to students in the Divinity School, and to special students in Theology in the University, as the Theological Faculty may direct and require.
To such courses of instruction any members of the University may be admitted.
He shall also give instruction, by lectures or otherwise, on such subjects as the religious history of the world; the relations of secular and church history; the influence of Christianity on the Roman Law, on preexisting institutions and customs, and on the earlier philosophies; the influence of antecedent institutions, religions, and philosophies, on Christianity; and the origin, history, and scope of the canon law; &mdash;such instruction to be open to all members of every department of the University."
The President of Harvard at the time Charles William Eliot (1834-1926) began to make inquiries of potential candidates for the chair.
Both William Robertson Smith (1846-1894), a noted biblical scholar at the University of Aberdeen, and the great church historian Adolf von Harnack (1851-1930), then at the University of Giessen, turned down the offer.
Eventually Ephraim Emerton (1851-1935), who had done his dissertation at Leipzig University, was appointed as the first holder of the chair in 1882.
According to the 2008 National Census, 85.5% of Liberia's population practices Christianity.
Muslims comprise 12.2% of the population, largely coming from the Mandingo and Vai ethnic groups.
The vast majority of Muslims are Malikite Sunni, with sizeable Shia and Ahmadiyya minorities.
Traditional indigenous religions are practiced by 0.5% of the population, while 1.8% subscribe to no religion.
Christian denominations include the Lutheran, Baptist, Episcopal, Presbyterian, Roman Catholic, United Methodist, African Methodist Episcopal (AME) and AME Zion denominations, and a variety of Pentecostal churches.
Some of the Pentecostal movements are affiliated with churches outside the country, while others are independent.
There are also members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons) and Seventh-day Adventists.
Christians live throughout the country.
In a religious context, the term kwi connotes a style of worship of a particular Christian church which is marked by formality and decorum.
Kwi is a Liberian term used to connote Westernization.
Services in churches considered to be non-kwi have more outward spiritualist expression, with dancing and even street processions in colorful costumes as key elements.
Non-kwi churches also have self-proclaimed prophets who interpret dreams and visions, and prioritize a direct experience with the Holy Spirit.
Liberia's educated elite have historically regarded the apostolic churches as churches of the uneducated and thus non-kwi.
The Muslim population is mainly found among the Mandingo and the Vai ethnic groups.
Vai live predominantly in the west.
Mandingo reside throughout the country.
Regardless of public statements of identification with Christianity, a "vast majority" of Liberians believe a supernatural world of ancestral and bush spirits that impact daily life.
Ethnic groups in all regions of Liberia participate in the traditional religious practices of the Poro and Sande secret societies, with the exception of the Krahn ethnic group, who have their own secret society.
"Liberian religious culture is characterised by a predisposition towards secrecy (encapsulated in the concept of ifa mo - "do not speak it") and an ingrained belief in the intervention of mysterious forces in human affairs".
"Both elite and non-elite Liberians usually attribute events to the activities of secret powers and forces".
"Beliefs include the conviction that there are deep and hidden things about an individual that only diviners, priests, and other qualified persons can unravel.
This presupposes that whatever exists or happens in the physical realm has foundations in the spirit world".
The Sande society is a female secret society found in Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea and the Ivory Coast that initiates girls into adulthood, confers fertility, instills notions of morality and proper sexual comportment, and maintains an interest in the well-being of its members throughout their lives.
In addition, Sande champions women's social and political interests and promotes their solidarity vis-a-vis the Poro society, a complementary institution for men.
Today this social institution is found among the Bassa, Gola, Kissi, Kpelle, Loma, People and Vai of Liberia.
Throughout the region, the complementarity of men's and women's gender roles – evident in such diverse activities as farming, cloth production, and musical performances – reach full expression.
The women's Sande and men's Poro associations alternate political and ritual control of "the land" (a concept embracing the natural and supernatural worlds) for periods of three and four years respectively.
During Sande's sovereignty, all signs of the men's society are banished.
At the end of this three-year period, the Sande leadership "turns over the land" to its counterparts in the Poro Society for another four years, and after a rest period the ritual cycle begins anew.
The alternating three- and four-year initiation cycles for women and men respectively are one example of the widespread use of the numbers 3 and 4 to signify the gender of people, places and events; together the numbers equal seven, a sacred number throughout the region.
The Bahá'í Faith in Liberia begins with the entrance of the first member of the religion in 1952 By the end of 1963 there were five assemblies and Liberian Bahá'ís elected their first National Spiritual Assembly in 1975.
The community was somewhat disrupted by the First Liberian Civil War but re-established their National Spiritual Assembly in 1998.
Almost 9,500 Bahá'ís are believed to have been in Liberia in 2006.
A large number of foreign missionary groups work openly and freely in the country.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice.
Despite frequent interaction among religious groups, some tensions remain.
Some societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice occur.
Jewish atheism refers to the atheism of people who are ethnically and (at least to some extent) culturally Jewish.
Because Jewish identity encompasses ethnic as well as religious components, the term "Jewish atheism" does not inherently entail a contradiction.
Based on Jewish law's emphasis on matrilineal descent, even religiously conservative Orthodox Jewish authorities would accept an atheist born to a Jewish mother as fully Jewish.
A 2011 study found that half of all American Jews have doubts about the existence of God, compared to 10–15% of other American religious groups.
There has been a phenomenon of atheistic and secular Jewish organizations, mostly in the past century, from the Jewish socialist Bund in early twentieth-century Poland to the modern Congress of Secular Jewish Organizations and the Society for Humanistic Judaism in the United States.
Many Jewish atheists feel comfortable within any of the three major non-Orthodox Jewish denominations (Reform, Conservative, and Reconstructionist).
This presents less of a contradiction than might first seem apparent, given Judaism's emphasis on practice over belief, with even mainstream guides to Judaism suggesting that belief in God is not a necessary prerequisite to Jewish observance.
However, Orthodox Judaism regards the acceptance of the "Yoke of Heaven" (the sovereignty of the God of Israel in the world and the divine origin of the Torah) as a fundamental obligation for Jews.
Even among non-Orthodox Jews, espousing atheism remains problematic outside of the Congress of Secular Jewish Organizations and the Society for Humanistic Judaism.
The Reform movement, for example, has rejected efforts at affiliation by atheistic temples.
The presence of atheists in all denominations of modern Judaism, from Secular Humanistic Judaism to Orthodoxy, has been noted.
Liberal Jewish theology makes few if any metaphysical claims and is thus compatible with atheism on an ontological level.
The founder of Reconstructionist Judaism, Mordechai Kaplan, espoused a naturalistic definition of God, while some post-Holocaust theology has also eschewed a personal god.
The Jewish philosopher Howard Wettstein has advanced a non-metaphysical approach to religious commitment, according to which metaphysical theism-atheism is not the issue.
Harold Schulweis, a Conservative rabbi trained in the Reconstructionist tradition, has argued that Jewish theology should move from a focus on God to an emphasis on "godliness."
This "predicate theology", while continuing to use theistic language, again makes few metaphysical claims that non-believers would find objectionable.
However, some Jewish atheists remain deeply uncomfortable with the use of any kind of theistic language.
For such Jews traditional practice and symbolism can still retain powerful meaning.
They may continue to engage in Jewish rituals such as the lighting of Shabbat candles and find meaning in many aspects of Jewish culture and religion.
For example, to an atheist Jew, the Menorah might represent the power of the Jewish spirit or stand as a symbol of the fight against assimilation.
No mention of a divine force in Jewish history would be accepted literally; the Torah may be viewed as a common mythology of the Jewish people, not a faith document or correct history.
Many Jewish atheists would reject even this level of ritualized and symbolic identification, instead embracing a thoroughgoing secularism and basing their Jewishness entirely in ethnicity and secular Jewish culture.
Possibilities for secular Jewishness include an identification with Jewish history and peoplehood, immersion in Jewish literature (including such non-religious Jewish authors as Philip Roth and Amos Oz), the consumption of Jewish food, the use of Jewish humor, and an attachment to Jewish languages such as Yiddish, Hebrew or Ladino.
A high percentage of Israelis identify themselves as secular, rejecting the practice of the Jewish religion (see Religion in Israel).
While some non-believers of Jewish ancestry do not consider themselves Jews, preferring to define themselves solely as atheists, some would argue that Judaism is arguably a culture and tradition that one can easily embrace without religious faith, despite Jewish culture revolving around God.
Historically, many well-known Jews have rejected a belief in deities.
Some have denied the existence of a traditional deity while continuing to use religious language.
In 1656 the seventeenth-century Jewish philosopher Baruch Spinoza was excommunicated by Amsterdam's Sephardic synagogue after advancing a pantheist notion of God that, according to some observers, is both compatible with and paved the way for modern atheism.
Deeply influenced by Spinoza, Albert Einstein used theistic language and identified strongly as a Jew, while rejecting the notion of a personal god.
The astrophysicist Carl Sagan was born into a Jewish family and was a non-theist.
Karl Marx was born into an ethnically Jewish family but raised as a Lutheran, and is among the most notable and influential atheist thinkers of modern history; he developed dialectical and historical materialism which became the basis for his critique of capitalism and his theories of scientific socialism.
Marx became a major influence among other prominent Jewish intellectuals including Moses Hess.
In one of his most cited comments on religion he stated: "Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world, and the soul of soulless conditions.
It is the opium of the people".
Many other famous Jews have wholeheartedly embraced atheism, rejecting religiosity altogether.
Sigmund Freud penned The Future of an Illusion, in which he both eschewed religious belief and outlined its origins and prospects.
At the same time he urged a Jewish colleague to raise his son within the Jewish religion, arguing that "If you do not let your son grow up as a Jew, you will deprive him of those sources of energy which cannot be replaced by anything else."
The anarchist Emma Goldman was born to an Orthodox Jewish family and rejected belief in God, while the Israeli prime minister Golda Meir, when asked if she believed in God, answered "I believe in the Jewish people, and the Jewish people believe in God."
More recently, the French Jewish philosopher Jacques Derrida stated somewhat cryptically, "I rightly pass for an atheist".
In the world of entertainment, Woody Allen has made a career out of the tension between his Jewishness and religious doubt ("Not only is there no God, but try getting a plumber on weekends").
David Silverman, president of the American Atheists since 2010, swore after his bar mitzvah that he would never again lie about being an atheist.
He has since given a talk exposing Jewish atheism as a white lie.
Mythical theology (theologica mythica) is one of three branches of theology established by the Roman scholar Marcus Terentius Varro (116&ndash;27 BC) in his lost work Antiquitates rerum humanarum et divinarum.
The other two are political theology (theologia civilis) and natural theology (theologia naturalis).
Mythical theology is practiced by poets, based on narratives (mythoi) pertaining to divine matters.
The theologians of civil or political theology are the people, asking how the gods relate to daily life and the state (see imperial cult).
The theologians of natural theology are the philosophers, inquiring into the nature of the gods.
"Mythical theology" should be distinguished from the theologia mystica of Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite.
Sthānakavāsī is a sect of Śvētāmbara Jainism founded by a merchant named Lavaji in 1653 AD.
It believes that idol worship is not essential in the path of soul purification and attainment of Nirvana/Moksha.
The sect is essentially a reformation of the one founded on teachings of Lonka, a fifteenth-century Jain reformer.
Sthānakavāsins accept thirty-two of the Jain Agamas, the Śvētāmbara canon.
Śvētāmbarins who are not Sthānakavāsins are mostly part of the Murtipujaka sect.
Saints (ascetic Sthanakvasins, called yatis) wear white clothes and cover their mouths with a square white cloth or muhapatti intended to minimize the risk of inhaling small insects or other airborne life forms, which Sthanakvasins see as a violation of ahimsa "non-violence".
They eat food collected from followers' houses and do not save edibles beyond the next meal and water is not kept even for a single night.
All eating and drinking has to be done between sunrise and sunset.
Saints do not stay at one place for too long except for the four monsoon months, the chaturmas.
Saints are also called dhundhiya "searchers" for their early practice of searching out and staying in abandoned or neglected structures to avoid disturbance from the public.
Saints own no possessions except for a few books, a couple sets of clothes and carrying utensils made of a special natural material.
Sthanakwasi : The Sthanakwasi arose not directly from the Shwetambars but as reformers of an older reforming sect, viz., the Lonka sect of Jainism.
This Lonka sect was founded in about 1474 A.D. by Lonkashah, a rich and well-read merchant of Ahmedabad.
The main principle of this sect was not to practice idol-worship.
Later on, some of the members of the Lonka sect disapproved of the ways of life of their current ascetics, declaring that they lived less strictly than Mahavira would have wished.
A Lonka sect layman, Viraji of Surat, received initiation as a Yati, i.e., an ascetic, and won great admiration on account of the strictness of his life.
Many people of the Lonka sect joined this reformer and they took the name of Sthanakwasi, thereby intending to strictly follow on the principles of Lord Mahavir.
Sthanakvasi means those who do not have their religious activities in temples but carry on their religious duties in places known as Sthanakas which are like prayer-halls.
The Sthanakwasis are also called by terms as (b)Sadhumargi (followers of Sadhus, i.e., ascetics).
Except on the crucial point of idol-worship, Sthanakwasi do not differ much from other Shwetambar Jains and hence now-a-days they invariably call themselves as Shwetambar Sthanakwasi.
However, there are some differences between the Sthanakwasi; and the Murtipujak Shwetambars in the observance of some religious practices.
The Sthanakwasi do not believe in idol-worship at all.
As such they do not have temples but only sthanakas, that is, prayer halls, where they carry on their religious fasts, festivals, practices, prayers, discourses, etc.
Further, the ascetics of Sthanakwasi cover their mouths with strips of cloth for all the time and they do not use the cloth of yellow or any other color (of course, except white).
Moreover, the Sthanakwasi admit the authenticity of only 32 of the scriptures of Shwetambars.
Furthermore, the Sthanakwasi's do not participate in the religious festivals (that related to temples and idol worship) of Murtipujak Shwetambars.
There are Various organized sub-sects in Shwetambar Sthankawasi order The Shwetambar Sthanakwasi are also spread in different business centers in India but they are found mainly in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra Punjab, Harayana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.
It is interesting to note that the two non-idolatrous sub-sects, viz., Taranapanthis among the Digambars and Sthanakwasi among the Shwetambars, came very late in the history of the Jain.
About 1474 A.D. the Lonka sect, the first of the non-idolatrous Jain sects, arose and was followed by the Dhundhiya or Sthanakwasi sect about 1653 A.D. dates which coincide strikingly with the Lutheran and Puritan movements in Europe.
The Shraman sangh of Sthanakvasi sect was formed in 1952 to unite all the ascetics under one Acharya.
This is the largest Sthanakvasi group.
Acharya Shiv Muni who is the leader of shraman sangh has regularly traveled all over India to impart the values of Jainism.
In ancient Roman religion, the Parilia is a festival of rural character performed annually on April 21, aimed at cleansing both sheep and shepherd.
It is carried out in acknowledgment to the Roman deity Pales, a deity of uncertain gender who was a patron of shepherds and sheep.
Ovid describes the Parilia at length in the Fasti, an elegiac poem on the Roman religious calendar, and implies that it predates the founding of Rome, traditionally 753 BC, as indicated by its pastoral, pre-agricultural concerns.
During the Republic, farming was idealized and central to Roman identity, so the festival took on a more generally rural character.
Increasing urbanization caused the rustic Parilia to be reinterpreted rather than abandoned, as Rome was an intensely traditional society.
During the Imperial period, the date was celebrated as the "birthday" of Rome (dies natalis Romae).
The pastoral structure of the festival is carried out by the shepherd himself.
After the sheep pen had been decorated with green branches and a wreath draped on the gate, the remainder of the ceremony took place in sequence.
At the first sign of daylight, the shepherd would purify the sheep: by sweeping the pen and then constructing a bonfire of straw, olive branches, laurel, and sulfur.
The noises produced by this burning combination were interpreted as a beneficial omen.
The shepherd would jump through this flame, dragging his sheep along with him.
Offerings of millet, cakes, and milk were then presented before Pales, marking the second segment of the ceremony.
After these offerings, the shepherd would wet his hands with dew, face the east, and repeat a prayer four times.
Such prayers requested Pales’s assistance in freeing the shepherd and the flock from evils brought about by accidental wrongdoings (e.g.
trespassing on sacred grounds and removing water from a sacred water source).
The final portion of the rural festival made use of the beverage burranica, a combination of milk and sapa (boiled wine).
After consumption of this beverage, the shepherd would leap through the fire three times, bringing an end to the ceremony.
The urban form of the Parilia, on the other hand, is blended with other Roman religious practices and carried out by a priest.
Ovid personally participated in this form and describes his experiences in the Fasti.
While the central actions of the rural ceremony carry over, the urban form adds two ingredients from other religious festivals: the Fordicidia and the October Horse.
The Fordicidia sacrifices a pregnant cow to the deity Tellus to promote cattle and field fertility.
The unborn calf is then removed from the womb and burnt.
The October Horse is the right hand horse of the team that won a particular chariot race on October 15 of the previous year.
Together, the ashes of the unborn calf and the blood from the head of the October Horse are mixed by the Vestals and are added to the burning bean straw of the bonfire.
Dumézil questioned whether the Equus October provided the horse blood, since the two ancient sources that mention the ingredient omit identifying the victim.
By the end of the late Republic, the Parilia became associated with the birthday of Rome.
Numerous accounts of the founding of Rome exist, but the particular one related to the Parilia is described by Ovid in the Fasti.
According to this myth, Romulus, upon reaching Rome on the day of the Parilia, took a stick and engraved a line in the ground that defined the boundaries of the new city (pomerium).
He then prayed to the gods Jupiter, Mars, and Vesta asking for protection of this area.
However, his brother Remus, unaware of the boundaries, crossed the line and was struck down by Romulus's henchman Celer.
Over time, and under the influence of several Roman rulers, the structure of the Parilia changed.
First, after Julius Caesar heard the news of Roman Victory at Munda in 45 BC (around the date of the Parilia), he added games to the ceremony.
At these games, the citizens would wear crowns in Caesar’s honor.
Caligula instituted into the celebration a procession of priests, noblemen, boys and girls of noble birth singing of his virtues while escorting the Golden Shield, previously bestowed upon him by the citizens of Rome, to the Capitol.
At this time the Parilia became Rome's birthday celebration rather than the rural festival it had once been.
In 121 AD Hadrian founded a new temple of Venus and Roma and changed the festival’s name to Romaea.
Paleo-Balkan mythology includes the religious practices of the Dacians, Thracians, and Illyrians.
Little is known about the rituals and mythology of the Iron Age Balkans, but some of their gods are depicted in statuary or described in Greek sources.
One notable cult, attested from Thrace to Moesia and Scythia Minor, is that of the "Thracian horseman", also known as the "Thracian Heros", at Odessos (Varna) attested by a Thracian name as Heros Karabazmos, a god of the underworld usually depicted on funeral statues as a horseman slaying a beast with a spear.
Several Thracian deities show close analogy to the Greek cult of Dionysus, Orpheus and Persephone (the Dionysian Mysteries): To this story of the subterraneous apartment, I do not give much credit, though I pretend not to dispute it; I am, however, very certain that Zamolxis must have lived Many years before Pythagoras : whether, therefore, he was a man, or the deity of the Getse, enough has been said concerning him.
These Getse, using the ceremonies I have described, after submitting themselves to the Persians under Darius, followed his army.
Kogaionon was the name of a holy mountain of the Dacians.
The mythology of the Illyrians is only known through mention of Illyrian deities on Roman period monuments, some with interpretatio Romana.
There appears to be no single most prominent Illyrian god and there would have been much variation between individual Illyrian tribes.
The Illyrians did not develop a uniform cosmology on which to center their religious practices.
Some deities are known exclusively from Istria, such as Eia, Malesocus, Boria and Iria.
In Liburnia, Anzotica is identified with Venus.
Other local theonyms include Latra, Sentona and Ica.
Bindus, identified with Neptune, was worshipped among the Japodes.
Further north, the hot springs of Topusko were dedicated to Vidasus and Thana, identified with Silvanus and Diana.
From the eastern Balkans, the cult of the Thracian horseman spread to Illyria during the early centuries CE.
The god Medaurus mentioned in a dedication at Lambaesis in Africa by a Roman senator and native of Risinium appears to be identical to the horseman, being described as riding on horseback and carrying a lance.
The Delmatae had Armatus as a god of war.
The god En was also worshipped by Illyrians.
En was demoted to demonic status following the arrival of Christianity in Illyria, and continues to be used in the Albanian language to refer to Thursday ( ).
Constructive theology is the re-definition of what has historically been known as systematic theology.
The reason for this reevaluation stems from the idea that, in systematic theology, the theologian attempts to develop a coherent theory running through the various doctrines within the tradition (Christology, eschatology, pneumatology, etc.).
A potential problem underlying such study is that in constructing a system of theology, certain elements may be left out, or "forced" in order to maintain the coherence of the overall system.
In response to this realization, some theologians (Sallie McFague, Catherine Keller, and Sharon V. Betcher) feel that the term "systematic" is no longer accurate in reference to theology, and prefer the language of constructive theology.
While not a proponent of the language of 'constructive theology,' Karl Barth frequently criticized the practice of systematizing theology or structuring a coherent system upon a philosophical foundation external to theology's own internal commitments.
Constructive Theology is also the title of a journal on the subject.
Prosperity theology (sometimes referred to as the prosperity gospel, the health and wealth gospel, or the gospel of success) is a religious belief among some Christians that financial blessing is the will of God for them, and that faith, positive speech, and donations (possibly to Christian ministries) will increase one's material wealth.
Based on non-traditional interpretations of the Bible, often with emphasis on the Book of Malachi, the doctrine views the Bible as a contract between God and humans: if humans have faith in God, he will deliver his promises of security and prosperity.
Confessing these promises to be true is perceived as an act of faith, which God will honor.
The doctrine emphasizes the importance of personal empowerment, proposing that it is God's will for his people to be happy.
The atonement (reconciliation with God) is interpreted to include the alleviation of sickness and poverty, which are viewed as curses to be broken by faith.
This is believed to be achieved through donations of money, visualization, and positive confession, and is often taught in mechanical and contractual terms.
It was during the Healing Revivals of the 1950s that prosperity theology first came to prominence in the United States, although commentators have linked the origins of its theology to the New Thought movement which began in the 19th century.
The prosperity teaching later figured prominently in the Word of Faith movement and 1980s televangelism.
In the 1990s and 2000s, it was adopted by influential leaders in the Charismatic Movement and promoted by Christian missionaries throughout the world, sometimes leading to the establishment of mega-churches.
Prominent leaders in the development of prosperity theology include E. W. Kenyon, Oral Roberts, TD Jakes, A.
A. Allen, Robert Tilton, T. L. Osborn, Joel Osteen, Creflo Dollar, Kenneth Copeland, Reverend Ike and Kenneth Hagin.
Churches in which the prosperity gospel is taught are often non-denominational and usually directed by a sole pastor or leader, although some have developed multi-church networks that bear similarities to denominations.
Such churches typically set aside extended time to teach about giving and request donations from the congregation, encouraging positive speech and faith.
Prosperity churches often teach about financial responsibility, though some journalists and academics have criticized their advice in this area as misleading.
Prosperity theology has been criticized by leaders in the Pentecostal and Charismatic movements, as well as other Christian denominations.
These leaders maintain that it is irresponsible, promotes idolatry, and is contrary to scripture.
Some critics have proposed that prosperity theology cultivates authoritarian organizations, with the leaders controlling the lives of the adherents.
The doctrine has also become popular in South Korea; academics have attributed some of its success to its parallels with the traditional shamanistic culture.
Prosperity theology has drawn followers from the American middle class and poor, and has been likened to the cargo cult phenomenon, traditional African religion, and black liberation theology.
Prosperity theology teaches that Christians are entitled to well-being and, because physical and spiritual realities are seen as one inseparable reality, this is interpreted as physical health and economic prosperity.
Teachers of the doctrine focus on personal empowerment, promoting a positive view of the spirit and body.
They maintain that Christians have been given power over creation because they are made in the image of God and teach that positive confession allows Christians to exercise dominion over their souls and material objects around them.
Leaders of the movement view the atonement as providing for the alleviation of sickness, poverty, and spiritual corruption; poverty and illness are cast as curses which can be broken by faith and righteous actions.
There are, however, some prosperity churches which seek a more moderate or reformed paradigm of prosperity.
Kirbyjon Caldwell, pastor of a Methodist mega-church, supports a theology of abundant life, teaching prosperity for the whole human being, which he sees as a path to combating poverty.
Wealth is interpreted in prosperity theology as a blessing from God, obtained through a spiritual law of positive confession, visualization, and donations.
This process is often taught in almost mechanical terms; Kenneth Copeland, an American author and televangelist, argues that prosperity is governed by laws, while other teachers portray the process formulaically.
Journalists David van Biema and Jeff Chu of Time have described Word of Faith pastor Creflo Dollar's teachings about prosperity as an inviolable contract between God and humanity.
The prosperity theology teaching of positive confession stems from its proponents' view of scripture.
The Bible is seen as a faith contract between God and believers; God is understood to be faithful and just, so believers must fulfill their end of the contract to receive God's promises.
This leads to a belief in positive confession, the doctrine that believers may claim whatever they desire from God, simply by speaking it.
Prosperity theology teaches that the Bible has promised prosperity for believers, so positive confession means that believers are speaking in faith what God has already spoken about them.
Positive confession is practiced to bring about what is already believed in; faith itself is a confession, and speaking it brings it into reality.
The teaching is often based on non-traditional interpretations of Bible verses, the Book of Malachi often being given special attention.
While Malachi has generally been celebrated by Christians for its passages about the messiah, teachers of prosperity theology usually draw attention to its descriptions of physical wealth.
Prosperity theology casts itself as the reclamation of true doctrine and thus part of a path to Christian dominion over secular society.
It contends that God's promises of prosperity and victory to Israel in the Old Testament apply to New-Covenant Christians today, and that faith and holy actions release this prosperity.
C. Peter Wagner, a leader of the New Apostolic Reformation, has argued that if Christians take dominion over aspects of society, the Earth will experience "peace and prosperity".
Some Latin Americans who have embraced prosperity theology argue that Christianity has historically placed an unnecessary focus on suffering.
They often view this as a Roman Catholic doctrine that should be discarded and replaced with an emphasis on prosperity.
Prosperity theology advocates also argue that biblical promises of blessings awaiting the poor have been unnecessarily spiritualized, and should be understood literally.
Congregants in prosperity churches are encouraged to speak positive statements about aspects of their lives that they wish to see improved.
These statements, known as positive confessions, (distinct from confessions of sin) are said to miraculously change aspects of people's lives if spoken with faith.
Prosperity churches also encourage people to "live without limits" and cultivate optimism about their lives.
T. D. Jakes, pastor of The Potter's House non-denominational mega-church, has argued in favor of prosperity, rejecting what he sees as the demonization of success.
He views poverty as a barrier to living a Christian life, suggesting that it is easier to make a positive impact on society when one is affluent.
While some prosperity churches have a reputation for manipulating and alienating the poor, many are involved in social programs.
Underlying these programs is a theology of empowerment and human flourishing with the goal of releasing people from a "welfare" or "victim" mentality.
Many prosperity churches hold seminars on financial responsibility.
Kate Bowler, an academic who studies prosperity theology, has criticized such seminars, arguing that though they contain some sound advice the seminars often emphasize the purchase of expensive possessions.
Hanna Rosin of The Atlantic argues that prosperity theology contributed to the housing bubble that caused the late-2000s financial crisis.
She maintains that home ownership was heavily emphasized in prosperity churches, based on reliance on divine financial intervention that led to unwise choices based on actual financial ability.
Leaders of the Pentecostal Movement in the early 20th century did not embrace prosperity theology.
A recognizable form of the doctrine began to take shape within the movement during the 1940s and 1950s, through the teachings of Pentecostal deliverance and healing evangelists.
Combining prosperity teaching with revivalism and faith healing, these evangelists taught "the laws of faith ('ask and ye shall receive') and the laws of divine reciprocity ('give and it will be given back unto you')".
One prominent early figure in prosperity theology was E. W. Kenyon, educated in the 1890s at Emerson College of Oratory, where he was exposed to the New Thought movement.
Kenyon later became connected with well-known Pentecostal leaders and wrote about supernatural revelation and positive declarations.
His writing influenced leaders of the nascent prosperity movement during the post-war American healing revival.
Kenyon and later leaders in the prosperity movement have denied that he was influenced by the New Thought movement.
Anthropologist Simon Coleman argues that there are "obvious parallels" between Kenyon's teachings and the New Thought movement.
Oral Roberts began teaching prosperity theology in 1947.
He explained the laws of faith as a "blessing pact" in which God would return donations "seven fold", promising that donors would receive back from unexpected sources the money they donated to him.
Roberts offered to return any donation that did not lead to an equivalent unexpected payment.
In the 1970s, Roberts characterized his blessing pact teaching as the "seed faith" doctrine: donations were a form of "seed" which would grow in value and be returned to the donor.
Roberts began recruiting "partners", wealthy donors who received exclusive conference invitations and ministry access in exchange for support.
In 1953, faith healer A.
A. Allen published The Secret to Scriptural Financial Success and promoted merchandise such as "miracle tent shavings" and prayer cloths anointed with "miracle oil".
In the late 1950s, Allen increasingly focused on prosperity.
He taught that faith could miraculously solve financial problems and claimed to have had a miraculous experience in which God supernaturally changed one-dollar bills into twenty-dollar bills to allow him to pay his debts.
Allen taught the "word of faith" or the power to speak something into being.
In the 1960s, prosperity became a primary focus in healing revivals.
T. L. Osborn began emphasizing prosperity in the 1960s and became known for his often ostentatious displays of personal wealth.
During that decade, Roberts and William Branham criticized other prosperity ministries, arguing that their fund-raising tactics unfairly pressured attendees.
These tactics were prompted in part by the expense of developing nationwide radio networks and campaign schedules.
At the same time, leaders of the Pentecostal Assemblies of God organization often criticized the focus on prosperity taken by independent healing evangelists.
During the 1960s, prosperity gospel teachers embraced televangelism and came to dominate religious programming in the United States.
Oral Roberts led the way, developing a syndicated weekly program that became the most watched religious show in the United States.
By 1968, television had supplanted the tent meeting in his ministry.
Reverend Ike, a pastor from New York City, began preaching about prosperity in the late 1960s.
He soon had widely aired radio and television programs and became distinguished for his flashy style.
His openness about love for material possessions and teachings about the "Science of the Mind" led many evangelists to distance themselves from him.
In the 1980s, public attention in the United States was drawn to prosperity theology through the influence of prominent televangelists such as Jim Bakker.
Bakker's influence waned, however, after he was implicated in a high-profile scandal.
In the aftermath, Trinity Broadcasting Network (TBN) emerged as the dominant force in prosperity televangelism, having brought Robert Tilton and Benny Hinn to prominence.
Although nearly all of the healing evangelists of the 1940s and '50s taught that faith could bring financial rewards, a new prosperity-oriented teaching developed in the 1970s that differed from the one taught by Pentecostal evangelists of the 1950s.
This "Positive Confession" or "Word of Faith" movement taught that a Christian with faith can speak into existence anything consistent with the will of God.
Kenneth Hagin was credited with a key role in the expansion of prosperity theology.
He founded the RHEMA Bible Training Center in 1974, and over the next 20 years, the school trained more than 10,000 students in his theology.
As is true of other prosperity movements, there is no theological governing body for the Word of Faith movement, and well-known ministries differ on some theological issues.
The teachings of Kenneth Hagin have been described by Candy Gunther Brown of Indiana University as the most "orthodox" form of Word of Faith prosperity teaching.
The Neo-Pentecostal movement has been characterized in part by an emphasis on prosperity theology, which gained greater acceptance within charismatic Christianity during the late 1990s.
By 2006, three of the four largest congregations in the United States were teaching prosperity theology, and Joel Osteen has been credited with spreading it outside of the Pentecostal and Charismatic movement through his books, which have sold over 4 million copies.
Bruce Wilkinson's The Prayer of Jabez also sold millions of copies and invited readers to seek prosperity.
By the 2000s, adherents of prosperity theology in the United States were most common in the Sun Belt.
In the late 2000s, proponents claimed that tens of millions of Christians had accepted prosperity theology.
A 2006 poll by Time reported that 17 percent of Christians in America said they identified with the movement.
There is no official governing body for the movement, though many ministries are unofficially linked.
In 2007, U.S.
Senator Chuck Grassley opened a probe into the finances of six televangelism ministries that promoted prosperity theology: Kenneth Copeland Ministries, Creflo Dollar Ministries, Benny Hinn Ministries, Bishop Eddie Long Ministries, Joyce Meyer Ministries, and Paula White Ministries.
In January 2011, Grassley concluded his investigation stating that he believed self-regulation by religious organizations was preferable to government action.
Only the ministries led by Meyer and Hinn cooperated fully with Grassley's investigation.
In the 2000s, churches teaching prosperity theology saw significant growth in the Third World.
According to Philip Jenkins of Pennsylvania State University, poor citizens of impoverished countries often find the doctrine appealing because of their economic powerlessness and the doctrine's emphasis on miracles.
One region seeing explosive growth is Western Africa, particularly Nigeria.
In the Philippines, the El Shaddai movement, part of the Catholic Charismatic Renewal, has spread prosperity theology outside Protestant Christianity.
One South Korean prosperity church, Yoido Full Gospel Church, gained attention in the 1990s by claiming to be the world's largest congregation.
Most churches in the prosperity movement are non-denominational and independent, though some groups have formed networks.
Prosperity churches typically reject Presbyterian polity (or governance) and the idea that a pastor should be accountable to elders; it is common for pastors of prosperity churches to be the highest organizational authority figure.
Critics, including Sarah Posner and Joe Conason, maintain that prosperity teachers cultivate authoritarian organizations.
They argue that leaders attempt to control the lives of adherents by claiming divinely bestowed authority.
Jenkins contends that prosperity theology is used as a tool to justify the high salaries of pastors.
In the United States, the movement has drawn many followers from the middle class and is most popular in commuter towns and urban areas.
In Exporting the American Gospel: Global Christian Fundamentalism Steve Brouwer, Paul Gifford, and Susan Rose speculate that the movement was fueled by a prevailing disdain for social liberalism in the United States that began in the 1970s.
Rosin argues that prosperity theology emerged because of broader trends, particularly American economic optimism in the 1950s and 1990s.
Tony Lin of the University of Virginia has also compared the teaching to manifest destiny, the 19th-century belief that the United States was entitled to the West.
Marvin Harris argues that the doctrine's focus on the material world is a symptom of the secularization of American religion.
He sees it as an attempt to fulfill the American Dream by using supernatural power.
Prosperity theology has become popular among poor Americans, particularly those who seek personal and social advancement.
It has seen significant growth in black and Hispanic churches and is particularly popular among immigrants.
Apologists for the movement note its ethnic diversity and argue that it encompasses a variety of views.
Joel Robbins of Cambridge University notes that most anthropologists attribute the theology's appeal to the poor—especially in the Global South—to the fact that it promises security and helps explain capitalism.
Simon Coleman developed a theory based on the doctrine's rhetoric and the feeling of belonging it gave parishioners.
In a study of the Swedish Word of Life Church, he noted that members felt part of a complex gift-exchange system, giving to God and then awaiting a gift in return (either from God directly or through another church member).
Hillsong Church, the largest congregation in Australia, teaches a form of prosperity theology that emphasizes personal success.
Marion Maddox has argued that this message has drawn a significant number of upwardly mobile Australians.
In a 1998 interview in Christianity Today, Bong Rin Ro of the Asia Graduate School of Theology suggested that the growth in popularity of prosperity theology in South Korea reflects a strong "shamanistic influence".
Bong pointed to parallels between the tradition of paying shamans for healing and the prosperity theology's contractual doctrine about giving and blessings.
Asia's economic problems, he argued, encouraged the growth of the doctrine in South Korea, though he claims it ignores the poor and needy.
During the interview, he stated that he saw the problem beginning to be reversed, citing calls for renewed faith and other practices.
Cho Yong-gi, pastor of Yoido Full Gospel Church in Seoul, has been criticized for shamanising Christianity.
This criticism has focused on his healing and exorcism ministries and his promise of material blessings.
Malaysian Christian writer Hwa Yung has defended Cho's healing and exorcism ministries, arguing that he successfully contextualized the gospel in a culture where shamanism was still prevalent.
However, Hwa criticizes Cho's teaching of earthly blessings for not reflecting a trust in God's daily provision and for their heavy focus on earthly wealth.
Historian Carter Lindberg of Boston University has drawn parallels between contemporary prosperity theology and the medieval indulgence trade.
Coleman notes that several pre-20th century Christian movements in the United States taught that a holy lifestyle was a path to prosperity and that God-ordained hard work would bring blessing.
Coleman has speculated that modern-day prosperity theology borrows heavily from the New Thought movement, though he admits that the connection is sometimes unclear.
Jenkins notes that critics draw a parallel between prosperity theology and the cargo cult phenomenon.
While citing the popularity of prosperity theology in agrarian African communities, he argues that it can also bear similarities to traditional African religious rituals.
J. Matthew Wilson of Southern Methodist University compares the movement to Black liberation theology owing to its focus on uplifting oppressed groups, though he notes that it differs in its concentration on individual success rather than corporate political change.
Mainstream evangelicalism has consistently opposed prosperity theology as heresy and prosperity ministries have frequently come into conflict with other Christian groups, including those within the Pentecostal and Charismatic movements.
Critics, such as Evangelical pastor Michael Catt, have argued that prosperity theology has little in common with traditional Christian theology.
Prominent evangelical leaders, such as Rick Warren, Ben Witherington III, and Jerry Falwell, have harshly criticized the movement, sometimes denouncing it as heretical.
Warren proposes that prosperity theology promotes the idolatry of money, and others argue that Jesus' teachings indicate a disdain for material wealth.
In Mark: Jesus, Servant and Savior, R. Kent Hughes notes that some 1st-century rabbis portrayed material blessings as a sign of God's favor.
He cites Jesus' statement in Mark 10:25 that "It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God" (KJV) as evidence to oppose such thinking.
Other critics of the movement assail promises made by its leaders, arguing that the broad freedom from problems they promise is irresponsible.
Church leaders are often criticized for abusing the faith of their parishioners by enriching themselves through large donations.
Prosperity theology has been opposed for not adequately explaining the poverty of the Apostles.
For instance, some theologians believe that the life and writings of Paul the Apostle, who is believed to have experienced significant suffering during his ministry, are particularly in conflict with prosperity theology.
Cathleen Falsani, religion writer in an opinion piece in the Washington Post,points to the conflict with basic Christian teachings "Jesus was born poor, and he died poor.
During his earthly tenure, he spoke time and again about the importance of spiritual wealth and health.
When he talked about material wealth, it was usually part of a cautionary tale."
In their book Health, Wealth and Happiness, theologians David Jones and Russell Woodbridge characterize the doctrine as poor theology.
They suggest that righteousness cannot be earned and that the Bible does not promise an easy life.
They argue that it is inconsistent with the gospel of Jesus and propose that the central message of the gospel should be Jesus' life, death, and resurrection.
Jones and Woodbridge see Jesus' importance as vital, criticizing the prosperity gospel for marginalizing him in favor of a focus on human need.
In another article, Jones criticizes the prosperity theology interpretation of the Abrahamic covenant, God's promise to bless Abraham's descendants, arguing that this blessing is spiritual and should already apply to all Christians.
He also argues that the proponents of the doctrine misconstrue the atonement, criticizing their teaching that Jesus' death took away poverty as well as sin.
He believes that this teaching is drawn from a misunderstanding of Jesus' life and criticizes John Avanzini's teaching that Jesus was wealthy as a misrepresentation, noting that Paul often taught Christians to give up their material possessions.
Although he accepts giving as "praiseworthy", he questions the motives of prosperity theology and criticizes the "Law of Compensation", which teaches that when Christians give generously, God will give back more in return.
Rather, Jones cites Jesus' teaching to "give, hoping for nothing in return."
Jones and Woodbridge also note that Jesus instructed followers to focus on spiritual rewards, citing his command in Matthew 6:19–20 "Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth&nbsp;...
But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven" (KJV).
Jones criticizes the doctrine's view of faith: he does not believe that it should be used as a spiritual force for material gain but seen as selfless acceptance of God.
In 1980, the General Council of the Assemblies of God criticized the doctrine of positive confession, noting examples of negative confessions in the Bible (where Biblical figures express fears and doubts) that had positive results and contrasting these examples with the focus on positive confessions taught by prosperity theology.
The Council argues that the biblical Greek word often translated as "confess" literally translates as "to speak the same thing", and refers to both positive and negative confessions.
The statement also criticizes the doctrine for failing to recognize the will of God: God's will should have precedence over the will of man, including their desires for wealth, and Christians should "recognize the sovereignty of God".
The statement further criticizes prosperity theology for overlooking the importance of prayer, arguing that prayer should be used for all requests, not simply positive confession.
The Council noted that Christians should expect suffering in this life.
They urge readers to apply practical tests to positive confession, arguing that the doctrine appeals to those who are already in affluent societies but that many Christians in other societies are impoverished or imprisoned.
Finally, the paper criticizes the distinction made by advocates of prosperity theology in the two Greek words that mean "speaking", arguing that the distinction is false and that they are used interchangeably in the Greek text.
The Council accused prosperity theology of taking passages out of context to fulfill its own needs, with the result that doctrine of positive confession is contradictory to the holistic message of the Bible.
On the August 16, 2015 episode of his HBO weekly series Last Week Tonight, John Oliver satirized prosperity theology by announcing that he had established his own tax-exempt church, called Our Lady of Perpetual Exemption.
In a lengthy segment, Oliver focused on what he characterized as the predatory conduct of televangelists who appeal for repeated gifts from people in financial distress or personal crises, and he criticized the very loose requirements for entities to obtain tax exempt status as churches under U.S. tax law.
Oliver said that he would ultimately donate any money collected by the church to Doctors Without Borders.
Notable works that advocate prosperity theology include:
The Puritan migration to New England was marked in its effects in the two decades from 1620 to 1640, after which it declined sharply for a while.
The term Great Migration usually refers to the migration in this period of English settlers, primarily Puritans to Massachusetts and the warm islands of the West Indies, especially the sugar rich island of Barbados, 1630–40.
They came in family groups (rather than as isolated individuals) and were motivated chiefly by a quest for freedom to practice their Puritan religion.
King James I of England made some efforts to reconcile the Puritan clergy in England, who had been alienated by the conservatism blocking reform in the Church of England.
Puritans adopted Calvinism (Reformed theology) with its opposition to ritual and an emphasis on preaching, a growing sabbatarianism, and preference for a presbyterian system of church polity.
They opposed religious practices in the Church that at any point came close to Roman Catholic ritual.
After Charles I of England became king in 1625, this religious conflict worsened.
Parliament increasingly opposed the King's authority.
In 1629, Charles dissolved Parliament with no intention of summoning a new one, in an ill-fated attempt to neutralize his enemies there, who included numerous lay Puritans.
With the religious and political climate so hostile and threatening, many Puritans decided to leave the country.
Some of the migration was from the expatriate English communities in the Netherlands of nonconformists and Separatists who had set up churches there since the 1590s.
The Winthrop Fleet of 1630 of eleven ships, led by the flagship Arbella, delivered about 700 passengers to the Massachusetts Bay Colony.
Migration continued until Parliament was reconvened in 1640, at which point the scale dropped off sharply.
In 1641, when the English Civil War began, some colonists returned to England to fight on the Puritan side.
Many stayed, since Oliver Cromwell, himself an Independent, backed Parliament.
From 1630 through 1640 approximately 20,000 colonists came to New England.
The 'Great Migration' 1629–40 saw 80,000 people leave England, roughly 20,000 migrating to each of four destinations, Ireland, New England, the West Indies and the Netherlands.
The immigrants to New England came from every English county except Westmorland, nearly half from Norfolk, Suffolk and Essex.
The distinction drawn is that the movement of colonists to New England was not predominantly male, but of families with some education, leading relatively prosperous lives.
Winthrop's noted words, a City upon a Hill, refer to a vision of a new society, not just economic opportunity.
Moore (2007) estimates that 7 to 11 percent of colonists returned to England after 1640, including about a third of the clergymen.
The Puritans created a deeply religious, socially tight-knit, and politically innovative culture that is still present within the modern United States.
They hoped this new land would serve as a "redeemer nation."
They fled England and in America attempted to create a "nation of saints": an intensely religious, thoroughly righteous, community designed to be an example for all of Europe.
Roger Williams, who preached religious toleration, separation of church and state, and a complete break with the Church of England, was banished and founded Rhode Island Colony, which became a haven for other refugees from the Puritan community, such as Anne Hutchinson.
Quakers were brutally expelled from Massachusetts, but they were welcomed in Rhode Island.
Four Quakers, known as the Boston martyrs, who remained in Massachusetts and refused to stop practicing their religion were executed by public hanging.
The Church in the Barrio: Mexican American Ethno-Catholicism in Houston is a 2006 book by Roberto R. Treviño, published by the University of North Carolina Press.
The work covers the years 1911-1972 and discusses the relationship between the Mexican-American community and the Catholic church, and the "ethno-Catholicism" among Houston's Mexicans.
This ethno-Catholism consisted of the cultural interaction between Irish American priests, religious practices of the indigenous Mexicans, and Mexican customs.
Mary E. Odem of Emory University wrote that "According to Trevino, ethno-Catholicism was more than a set of religious beliefs and practices; it was a way of life that sustained generations of Mexicans and Mexican Americans in Houston".
José F. Aranda, Jr. of Rice University wrote that "From beginning to end, Treviño demonstrates why Houston should no longer remain virtually neglected by Chicano/a researchers."
Michael P. Carroll of the University of Western Ontario argued that the book's title did not adequately cover the entire scope of the book; Carroll characterized this as a "mild complaint".
Treviño grew up in Houston within the Mexican community.
He is an associate professor of history at the University of Texas at Arlington, where he works as the Center for Mexican American Studies assistant director.
The book originated as a Stanford University PhD dissertation.
Treviño's sources for the book include church archival material and records, located Houston, Austin, and San Antonio in Texas and in Chicago.
The archives include parish records.
Other sources include family papers; oral histories; organizational papers; unpublished letters, religious and secular newspapers, including Catholic newspapers and Spanish-language newspapers; and eighteen interviews.
Laura Premack of the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill stated that the sourcing's "breadth and depth are one of the book’s major strengths."
F. Arturo Rosales of Arizona State University stated that the book was the first published book to use "a micro-methodology" to examine the Catholic church relationship with Mexican Americans.
The book includes the chapters, an index, a bibliography, illustrations, and notes.
The illustrations include 21 photographs, four maps, and three tables.
John Barnhill, an independent scholar from Houston, stated "The style is lucid and interesting, making the work accessible to scholars and lay people alike."
Premack stated "the overall clarity and readability of the prose" was a positive for the book.
Carroll stated that "What I consistently found impressive about the analysis presented in this book is that Treviño refuses to succumb to the temptation to think in terms of simple dichotomies."
The book uses thematic chapters, which Todd Kerstetter of Texas Christian University stated "function almost as a collection of essays", as opposed to a narrative.
The there are seven main chapters, each having a particular topic.
Most chapters cover the book's entire time period focus.
The first chapter documents the beginning of the Houston Mexican community and the evolution of Catholicism in the Mexican community.
Premack stated that the chapter had "remarkably clear historical background" and that it "could be quite useful for teaching undergraduates".
In order, the remaining chapters discuss ethno-Catholicism itself, poverty, the expansion of the Catholic church, the Mexican-American identity and the commitment to the faith, social action, and the Chicano movement.
Some of the subsequent chapters are specifically dedicated to Mexican-Catholic church relations.
Kerstetter added that "Parts, especially those covering the most recent events, read more like anthropology than history.
Readers looking for theology will not find much here, but they will find solid social history."
The epilogue covers the post-1970s period.
Kerstetter stated "The epilogue surveys how the book's themes fared during the last three decades of the twentieth century."
The chapter topics include an increase in evangelical Protestantism in the Hispanic and Latino world, an increase in immigration from Latin America, and a decrease in political power of left-wing movements.
Carroll stated that the author "suggests" that since the 1960s and early 1970s Mexican-American influence declined due to the increased categorizing their pastoral and social issues into "a more general (and vague) concern with multiculturalism" and Mexican concerns being "increasingly subsumed" into pan-Hispanic concerns.
Carroll stated that this occurred despite the fact that "Mexican American ethno-Catholicism itself remains vibrant".
Blanton concluded that the book "seldom disappoints" and that it "describes Mexican American Catholicism in all its fascinating, vibrant dimensions and offers a perceptive, sophisticated, and balanced interpretation of the subject in one of the nation’s largest cities."
Blanton stated that the author needed to further explain the comparison between Mexican and Italian ethno-Catholicism and that the author "neglects the ideological framework of Mexican Americans from the 1930s to the 1960s", but Blanton believed that the issues "do not diminish the book’s excellence."
Carroll concluded that "This is, quite simply, one of the best books that I have read on the Catholic experience in America, and I recommend it highly."
John T. Ford of the Catholic University of America stated that the book is an "admirably researched study" that "not only provides an informative and interesting account of Mexican Americans and the Roman Catholic Church in Houston, but also could well serve as an excellent model for similar case studies elsewhere."
Kristy Nabhan-Warren of Augustana College wrote that "Overall, this is a finely wrought portrait of Mexican American lived religion that makes important and substantial contributions to scholarship on U.S. Catholicism, Mexican American history, ethnic and urban studies, and American religious history."
Odem stated "Roberto R. Trevino makes a welcome contribution to Chicano history".
Premack believed that "the good treatment of gender" was another positive; she wrote that she wanted additional exploration of "the fascinating tension between inclusion and outsiderness" and relations between the Mexican-American Evangelical and ethno-Catholic "identities".
Gene B. Preuss of the University of Houston–Downtown stated that the book "is well written" and "makes an excellent companion to" the 2001 book Ethnicity in the Sunbelt: A History of Mexican Americans in Houston by Arnoldo De León.
Barnhill wrote "In sum, the work brings back a neglected aspect of Houston history and adds to the knowledge about the Mexican-American community in the United States."
Non-fiction about Mexican-Americans in Houston: Fiction about Mexican-Americans in Houston:
Catherine Keller (born 1953) is a contemporary Christian theologian and Professor of Constructive Theology at Drew University's Graduate Division of Religion.
As a constructive theologian, Keller's work is oriented around social and ecological justice, poststructuralist theory, and feminist readings of scripture and theology.
Both her early and her late work brings relational thinking into theology, focusing on the relational nature of the concept of the divine, and the forms of ecological interdependence that that a relational theology highlights.
Her work in process theology draws on the relational ontology of Alfred North Whitehead and deploys this within a postmodern, deconstructive framework.
Keller's work has always been highly interdisciplinary, pulling from sub-fields such as feminist thought, environmental thought, and Continental philosophy.
She has played a leading role in building interdisciplinary connections into, and out of, the field of theology.
Since 2001 she has had a central role in directing and developing Drew University's Transdisciplinary Theological Colloquium.
The colloquia seek to "foster a fresh style of theological discourse that is at once self-deconstructive in its pluralism and constructive in its affirmations".
Recent colloquia have brought theology into conversation with movements such as Queer Theory and Animal Studies, have offered cutting-edge perspectives on debates about Religion and Science, and have explored topics such as political theology.
Notable scholars from outside the field of theology, have participated in the colloquia in recent years - for example: William E. Connolly, Karen Barad, Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak, Daniel Boyarin, and Amy Hollywood.
With John Caputo, Roland Faber and others, Keller provides leadership in the field of theopoetics.
Keller received a Ph.D. in Philosophy of Religion and Theology from Claremont Graduate School in 1984, a Master of Divinity (M.Div.)
from Eden Theological Seminary in 1977, and a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
in Equivalent Theology from University of Heidelberg in 1974.
Richard Pearsall (29 August 1698 &ndash; 10 November 1762) was an English Congregationalist minister and friend of Philip Doddridge.
Born at Kidderminster, Worcestershire, the formative early influences on his religious beliefs were his sisters Hannah and Phoebe.
He was later to publish Hannah's diary in 1774 as The Power and Pleasure of Divine Life.
Phoebe and Richard were both correspondents of Philip Doddridge; her diary was published by the SPCK.
He received his education for the ministry at Tewkesbury, in Gloucestershire, under the famous regime of Samuel Jones, academy tutor.
It is not necessarily the case, as stated in some biographies of Pearsall, that he became friends with Thomas Secker and Joseph Butler there, but their careers at the academy almost certainly overlapped, since all three studied there in the late 1710s.
Pearsall was ordained at Bromyard in Herefordshire in 1721, where he spent ten years of his ministry; from here, he moved to Warminster, in Wiltshire, where he remained for 16 years.
His third and most important ministry was at Taunton, in Somerset, where he met opposition to his orthodox Calvinist Trinitarianism.
He was minister here for about 15 years, from 1747 to 1762.
Rickshaw art or auto art is a form of neo-romanticism emerging in the Indian subcontinent.
The art in question consists of oil paintings on the rear of the canvas roof of rickshaws, done by local street artists, who also paint the various landscape, portraits and personal statements of the driver.
What began as an amateur portrayal of local Hyderabadi street art, went on to spawn more sophisticated computer-generated images for all kinds of vehicles, and was soon to become one of the best-loved personalizations of people's cars in India.
In Bangladesh, rickshaw art dates back to the 1950s and every conceivable part of the rickshaw is painted.
In addition to geometric designs, there are depictions of flowers, birds and even popular actresses.
The rickshaw can be decorated to show the driver's religious beliefs and sometimes even a commentary on current social issues.
In Bangladesh, rickshaw art is looked down upon by the elite population.
jpg|A hand-painted decorated rickshaw from Bangladesh File:Art & Faith.jpg|Bollywood actress Smita Patil depicted on an interior decoration from a rickshaw in Mumbai </gallery>
Resurrection is a 1980 film which tells the story of a woman who survives the car accident which kills her husband, but discovers that she has the power to heal other people.
She becomes an unwitting celebrity, the hope of those in desperate need of healing, and a lightning rod for religious beliefs and skeptics.
The film stars Ellen Burstyn, Sam Shepard, Richard Farnsworth, Roberts Blossom and Eva Le Gallienne.
The movie was written by Lewis John Carlino and directed by Daniel Petrie.
It was nominated for two Academy Awards; one for Best Actress in a Leading Role (Ellen Burstyn) and another for Best Actress in a Supporting Role (Eva Le Gallienne).
In 2010, this film was released on DVD as part of the Universal Vault Series of DVD-on-Demand titles.
A novelization was written by George Gipe.
Y Stafell Ddirgel (in English, The Secret Room) is a novel by Marion Eames written in the Welsh language and first published in 1969.
An English translation was published in 1975 under the title The Secret Room.
In 2001 a highly successful television adaptation appeared on S4C.
The novel is concerned with the persecution of Quakers in North Wales during the seventeenth century.
A sequel by Eames, Y Rhandir Mwyn (The Gentle Region) (1990), continues the story.
The story is set in the reign of King Charles II of England and follows the experiences of Quaker leader Rowland Ellis who founded a Welsh colony in Pennsylvania after being forced to leave Wales because of religious persecution.
Rowland Ellis becomes a Quaker as a result of the influence of a neighbour, but his wife does not share his religious beliefs.
Following her death, he marries a sympathetic cousin.
He is betrayed to the authorities by a servant he has dismissed, who describes a "secret room" he claims to have seen in the house, containing objects of Catholic worship.
However, this is not the main reason why the novel is named "The Secret Room", as it also refers to the secret room within one's heart where the inner light is found.
Ellis and his fellow Quakers are imprisoned and illegally condemned to death, but are released following the direct intervention of the king.
Nevertheless, they decide to leave Wales for a better life in America.
The Poorhouse Fair (1959) was the first novel by the American author John Updike.
A second edition (New York : Knopf, 1977) included an introduction by the author and was slightly revised.
The residents of the Diamond County Home for the Aged prepare for their annual fair, a summer celebration at which they sell their crafts and produce to the people of the nearby town.
The fair is at first rained out, and the young prefect, Conner, turns the "inmates" against him by arguing with the noble Hook (94 years old, a former teacher with strong religious beliefs).
After the rain clears, some residents fling small stones at Conner.
The novel examines the political and religious dialectics that exist among its characters and their respective generations.
The novel has been overshadowed by Updike's more popular works, and reviews have been mixed.
As examples, Donald Barr of the New York Times deemed it "a work of intellectual imagination and great charity,"  while Commentary (magazine) called it a "hearty but not very successful try at a first novel."
Thomas Fairfax, 9th Lord Fairfax of Cameron (1762–1846) was the son of Bryan Fairfax.
With his father, on December 11, 1799, he was among the last guests at Mount Vernon before Washington died.
He lived the life of a country squire overseeing his , lived at Belvoir, Ash Grove, and Vaucluse, where he died.
He married three times: Mary Aylett, Laura Washington, Margaret Herbert.
Fairfax bithed children with Mary Aylett, a Native Indian woman.
He had seven children by his third wife Margaret: Albert Fairfax, Henry Fairfax (who died in the Mexican–American War, at Saltillo, Mexico, on August 14, 1847), Orlando Fairfax, Reginald Fairfax, Eugenia Fairfax, Aurelia Fairfax, and Monimia Fairfax (mother of Constance Cary).
He maintained a winter home at 607 Cameron Street, Alexandria, Virginia, which he built in 1816.
Thomas Fairfax was a follower of Swedenborg.
Because of these religious beliefs, he manumitted his slaves, taught them a trade, and sent them to Liberia.
This is consistent with the thinking of the American Colonization Society.
His grandson, Charles S. Fairfax, succeeded him as Baron Cameron.
In the religious beliefs of the Native American Pueblo people, Toho is a hunter kachina for the Hopi and Zuni tribes;<br /> Toho, The mountain lion kachina, often accompanies such animals as the deer or antelope kachinas when they appear in the Line Dances of spring.
However, during the Pachavu or Tribal Initiation about every fourth year, Toho appears as a guard.
Armed with yucca whips, he patrols the procession in company with He-e-e, Warrior Woman, and other warrior or guard kachinas.
Thought to be the most powerful hunter, the Toho is the guardian of the northern direction.
He is associated with the color yellow and appears in both hunting and healing fetish sets, always facing north.
Toho can be represented by a naked man wearing a mask, whiskers and yellow feathers upon either side of his head to look like the lion's ears, or carved as a mountain lion fetish in an ancient, primitive style, most mountain lion fetishes are represented with their tails up and over the back.
Toho is there to remind us to persevere, clarify our goals and move forward to achieving our dreams.
He steadies the hunter and protects his territory.
<br /> Hopi kachinas by Jesse Walter Fewkes, 1903<br />
This Is Your Time is Michael W. Smith's fourteenth studio album, released in 1999.
All the songs from this album, except "This Is Your Time" and "This Is Your Time (Reprise)", were originally recorded for his previous studio album Live the Life, but did not make the final cut for the album.
The title track was inspired by the initial news report that Columbine shooting victim Cassie Bernall was killed for answering "yes" to the question "Do you believe in God?"
Smith co-wrote the song with Wes King, having enlisted his help knowing that he wanted to write about Columbine but did not want to exploit a tragedy.
The music video features a short video clip of Bernall talking about her religious beliefs and how she wanted to spread the word of God at the beginning.
Specimens of Bushman Folklore is a book by the linguist Wilhelm H. I. Bleek and Lucy C. Lloyd which was published in 1911.
The book records eighty-seven Xam Bushman legends, myths and other traditional stories.
The stories were collected through interviews with various |Xam narrators, chief among them |A!kunta, ||Kabbo, Diä!kwain, !K Kweiten ta ||ken and |Han≠kasso (the punctuation and other marks represent various clicks), which were transcribed by Bleek and his sister-in-law Lucy Lloyd.
Bleek died in 1875, but Lloyd continued transcribing Xam narratives after his death and it is thanks to her efforts that some of the narratives were eventually published, in Specimens of Bushman Folklore.
The book also includes sketches of rock art attributed to the Bushmen people and some |Xun narratives.
Specimens of Bushman Folklore has been considered the cornerstone of study of the Bushmen and their religious beliefs.
This book, as well as the situation of the Bushmen during their disappearance in South Africa and the lives of Bleek and Lloyd have been covered in a Dutch documentary series called The Broken String.
Bushmen in a Victorian World.
Cape Town: Double Storey, 2006.
Secrets of Dhaulagiri is a 2011 Nepalese documentary film directed by Prabesh Subedi and produced by Media Chautari.
This film fallows two families living in the remote Himalayas, Dhaulagiri Himal (26795&nbsp;ft) of Nepal.
It focuses on happiness and sorrows of people living with the geographical difficulties along with their cultural and religious beliefs.
This film was released on 11 December 2011 at Kathmandu International Mountain Film Festival.
Secrets of Dhaulagiri explores the life obscured by innumerable difficulties while living in the high Himalayas.
The documentary features lives of two characters — Dil Bahadur, 78 and Sagendra Gauchan, 38 — in an impressive way.
Gauchan looks after his herd of yak and stays in high altitude for six months.
He earns through yak rearing which is a difficult task where anything can happen to him due to natural calamities like snow erosion and mist.
Meanwhile, Bahadur is a victim of paralysis and believes that after drinking yak’s blood he will become healthy.
was a Japanese philosopher, best known for his work in the philosophy of religion dealing mostly with western religion and also western philosophical thoughts in theological aspects of Christianity.
Hatano was born in Matsumoto in Nagano Prefecture, and educated at Tokyo Imperial University, from which he graduated in 1899.
He was very influential in stimulating the study in Japan of Western philosophy and religion, both through his teaching (he was the first to teach the history of Western philosophy at Tokyo Semmon Gakko, now Waseda University), and through his early writings.
These included An Outline of the History of Western Philosophy (1897), The Origins of Christianity (1909), and A Study of Spinoza (1904–1905).
The last of these was originally written in German and only translated into Japanese in 1910).
It was reprinted after WW2.
He opposed a positivist approach to religion, arguing that though rationality underpinned religious beliefs, it depended upon an autonomous form of experience to discover at least partial truth.
He died in Tokyo at the age of seventy-three.
Sweet Cakes by Melissa was a cake shop in Gresham, Oregon, in the United States.
It gained widespread press attention in January 2013 when it turned away customers who wanted cakes for a same-sex wedding, who then made a complaint to the Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries, claiming their civil rights under the Oregon Equality Act had been infringed.
The owners of the business stated that they had refused to cater for the wedding because of their religious beliefs, and that their right to do so was protected by the U.S. constitution.
They subsequently closed the shop, and carried out their business from home.
In April 2015, an administrative court made a preliminary decision to penalize the business.
The owners of the business opened a GoFundMe appeal, “Support Sweet Cakes by Melissa”, which raised over $100,000 before it was shut down by GoFundMe, who stated that the campaign was not compatible with their terms of service.
In a statement, GoFundMe confirmed that the funds raised before the appeal was shut down would still be available for withdrawal.
The administrative court's decision was confirmed in a final order by the Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries in July 2015.
The owners of the business have stated that they will contest the Bureau's decision.
Srichandra (reigned c. 930&ndash;975) was the second and most influential ruler of the Candra dynasty in the kingdom of Harikela in eastern Bengal.
Much of what is known of him comes from the copper plates from Mainamati as well as the plate discovered in the village of Paschimbhag in Moulvibazar detailing his successful campaign against the Kingdom of Kamarupa.
He is also credited with expanding his father's empire to encompass the kingdoms of Vanga and Samatata.
Under his command, the Harikelan armies also successfully fought the Pala Empire and possibly the Kambojas of northern Bengal.
His contemporary Pala ruler was Gopala II.
Srichandra also moved the administrative center of the empire from Devaparvata to his newly built capital, Vikrampur.
According to the copper plates, although Srichandra was a devout Buddhist and a patron of his faith, he was tolerant of other religious beliefs among his subjects, evidenced by his attempts to settle displaced Brahmins within his empire.
Shukur Burkhanov ( ; 15 September 1910 &ndash; 15 August 1987) was a Soviet theatre and cinema actor.
Burkhanov was born and grew up in Tashkent (then part of the Russian Empire) in a strict Muslim family.
In order to join the Uzbek drama theatre, which was founded in the 1920s, he had to leave home because his family's orthodox religious beliefs forbade acting.
At the time Uzbek theatre was still in its infancy.
In 1930 he received training at the Moscow Art Theatre, which he credited as enabling him to play classic roles such as Romeo, Hamlet, and Œdipus.
Burkhanov was involved in Uzbek cinema from its very inception.
The Uzbekfilm studio typecast him as a rebel who challenged the old order and traditions.
In the early 1970s he was the subject of a documentary, People's Artist Shukur Burkhanov, narrated by fellow actor Boris Andreyev.
Panakas are the huaca (sacred compounds) in which the royal mummies of the Incas were housed.
There were twelve or thirteen located in Cusco.
The mummies were honored with their own royal entourages and households between their necessary attendance at all civil-political rituals.
The Inca's religious beliefs did not hold that these persons ceased to have souls at the end of life.
It was not uncommon for indigenous Americans to believe that life of the body and the continuation of the soul did not cease with the cessation of breathing.
In many ways, it was felt that the royal mummies continued to have a sort of life.
They were preserved and ritualistically fed and honored, and paraded in rituals and ceremonial pilgrimages.
The royal family was honored in this way because they were believed to be the sons of the sun (Inti).
The political mandate to rule depended upon this belief, and the belief also guaranteed the exalted status of the mummies and their entourages along with their preservation.
Spanish Catholic priests seized the mummies and destroyed them during their campaigns, which were often labeled the extirpation of idolatry, along with almost every other aspect of native culture.
Parranda, of Parranda de aguinaldo, is an Afro-Indigenous musical form played in various Caribbean countries including Puerto Rico, Trinidad, and the coastal area of the states Aragua and Carabobo in Venezuela.
In Puerto Rico, parrandas (sometimes also called asaltos in Spanish; literally "assaults") are musical festivities in the Christmas season holidays.
They are also known as "trullas navideñas" and are associated with pride with customs of the traditional Puerto Rican jibaro.
The traditional events have been likened to Christmas caroling, but the contents of the songs are secular rather than religious.
They are sometimes carried out in the evening, but most traditionally occur in the night, even into the wee hours of the morning.
The is a left-wing party created in Japan on March 3, 1996, by a group of left wingers who left the Social Democratic Party.
The party has some similarities to the Japanese Communist Party.
It says that people can have "freedom of thought and religious beliefs".
A peaceful democratic revolution, peace, and human rights constitute what the party desires to be part of Japan's constitution.
Another idea they support is direct democracy.
Another viewpoint that the party shares with the Japanese Communist Party, although slightly different, is the belief Japan should completely stop using its nuclear power, so Japan can become a nation with "unarmed neutrality."
A nicodemite, usually a term of disparagement, is a person who is suspected of public misrepresentation of their actual religious beliefs by exhibiting false appearance and concealing true beliefs.
Introduced into 16th century religious discourse, its currency persisted into the 18th century and beyond.
It was usually applied to persons of publicly conservative religious position and practice who were thought to be secretly humanistic or reformed.
Originally employed mostly by Protestants, it was also later used by Catholics as well.
In England during the 17th and 18th century it was often applied to those suspected of secret Socinian, Arianist, or proto-Deist beliefs.
The term was apparently introduced by John Calvin (1509–1564) in 1544 in his Excuse à messieurs les Nicodemites.
Since the French monarchy had increased its prosecution of heresy with the Edict of Fontainebleau (1540), it had become increasingly dangerous to profess dissident belief publicly, and refuge was being sought in emulating Nicodemus.
In the Gospel of John John 3:1-2 there appears the character Nicodemus, a Pharisee and member of the Sanhedrin.
Although outwardly remaining a pious Jew, he comes to Jesus secretly by night to receive instruction.
Although he was eventually made a saint, his dual allegiance was somewhat suspect.
Marco Aurelio Severino (November, 1580 – July 12, 1656) was an Italian surgeon and anatomist.
Severino was born in Tarsia (Calabria, Italy), of Giovanni Jacopo Severino, a lawyer.
He died of plague in 1656 in Naples.
Adept of the atomist views of Democritus, he disregarded Aristotle.
He met Tommaso Campanella and corresponded with William Harvey and Thomas Bartholin.
He was familiar of the works of scientists of the antiquity like Galen and Lactantius.
He also was the author of a book called The philosophy of chess (La filosofia degli scacchi).
Besides his brilliant career as a surgeon and professor, his works present an ambiguous aspect.
He includes mystic speculations, and his work attempts to coincide with his religious beliefs.
Severino gave us a list of his printed works and manuscripts, which is made up of nine parts and extends on four pages.
It can be found in a 1653 edition Therapeuta Neapolitanus : .
This list can also be consulted on http://gso.gbv.de/
Operation Texas was an undercover operation to relocate European Jews to Texas, USA, away from Nazi persecution.
In 1938, Lyndon B. Johnson, then a Congressman and later the 36th President of the United States of America, worked covertly to establish a refuge in Texas for European Jews fleeing Nazi Germany.
Johnson helped hundreds of European Jews enter Texas through Cuba, Mexico and South America.
In part, Johnson was influenced in his attitude towards the Jews by the religious beliefs that his family, especially his grandfather (Samuel Ealy Johnson, Sr.), who was a member of the Christadelphian church, shared with him.
Christadelphians believe that the Jews are God's chosen people, and LBJ's grandfather once said to him, "Take care of the Jews, God’s chosen people.
Consider them your friends and help them any way you can."
In reference to Operation Texas, Texas historian James M. Smallwood commented that LBJ "apparently took seriously his grandfather's charge."
Shri Digamber Jain Atishya Kshetra Mandir, Sanghiji is an ancient Jain temple in Sanganer, Rajasthan made of red stone.
The idol of principal deity of this temple, Lord Rishabhanatha (Adinatha), the first Tirthankara, is supposed to be 4000 years old.
The fine carvings of the temple were created in the 11th century.
The temple has got seven underground floors where no one is allowed to enter due to religious beliefs.
It is said that they are being guarded by Yaksha and that only a Balyati ascetic Digambara saint can enter.
In 1999, Muni Sudhasagar ji visited the temple and brought thirty-nine valuable Jain idols.
He claimed that he brought the idols from the fifth underground floor and encountered many Yaksha (in the form of snakes) protecting the treasure.
Ronald Sapa Tlau is a Congress politician from Mizoram representing Mizoram in the Rajya Sabha.
Ronald Sapa Tlau has completed his undergraduate studies from Spicer Adventist University and post graduate studies from Howard University in Communication for rural development.
He was the General Secretary of Mizoram Pradesh Congress Committee as well as the spokesperson of the party in Mizoram.
He was the chairman of the public sector Zoram Electronics Development Corporation Limited (ZENICS) since 2009 and has also unsuccessfully contested the Assembly polls from Hrangturzo seat in Mizoram Assembly elections in 2008.
He is married to Ramthanpari Tlau and have 2 sons and 1 daughter.
He is a practicing Seventh-day Adventist Christian.
Religions, Values, and Peak Experiences is a book on psychology by Dr. Abraham Maslow, first published in 1964.
Maslow addressed the motivational significance of peak experiences in a series of lectures in the early 1960s, later published these ideas in book form.
In contrast with the preoccupation of Freudian psychopathology, Maslow insisted on a "psychology of the higher life" which was to attend to the question "of what the human being should grow toward."
In his work, Maslow described the experience of one's life as meaningful as being based on a feeling of fulfillment and significance.
Maslow's theory of “peak-experiences” has been compared to William James' “healthy-minded” religion.
Maslow hypothesized a negative relationship between adherence to conventional religious beliefs and the ability to experience peak moments.
In Religions, Values, and Peak Experiences, Maslow stated that the peak experience is "felt as a self- validating, self-justifying moment which carries its own intrinsic value with it."
Furthermore, the person is the "creative center of his (or her) own activities."
Religious tourism, also commonly referred to as faith tourism, is a type of tourism, where people travel individually or in groups for pilgrimage, missionary, or leisure (fellowship) purposes.
The world's largest form of mass religious tourism takes place at the annual Hajj pilgrimage in Mecca, Saudi Arabia.
North American religious tourists comprise an estimated $10 billion of the industry.
Modern religious tourists are more able to visit holy cities and holy sites around the world.
The most famous holy cities are Mecca, Madinah, Karbala, Jerusalem and Varanasi.
The most famous holy sites are the Kaaba, Rauza of Imam Husain at Karbala, Church of the Nativity, The Western Wall and the Brahma Temple at Pushkar.
Religious tourism has existed since antiquity.
A study in 2011 found that 2.5 million people visited Karbala on the day of Arbaeen in 2013, pilgrims visited Jerusalem for a few reasons: to understand and appreciate their religion through a tangible experience, to feel secure about their religious beliefs, and to connect personally to the holy city.
Religious tourism comprises many facets of the travel industry including: Although no definitive study has been completed on worldwide religious tourism, some segments of the industry have been measured:
Rassenkunde des deutschen Volkes (English: Racial Science of the German People), is a book written by German race researcher and Nazi Party member Hans Günther and published in 1922.
The book strongly influenced the racial policy of Nazi Party; Adolf Hitler was so impressed by the work, that he made it the basis of his eugenics policy.
The book had gone through six editions by 1926, and by 1945, more than half a million copies had been sold in Germany.
In the book, Günther recognizes the Germans as being composed of five Aryan racial subtypes: Nordic, Mediterranean, Alpine, East Baltic, and Dinaric, viewing Nordics as being at the top of the racial hierarchy.
He defined each racial subtype according to general physical appearance and their psychological qualities including their "racial soul" - referring to their emotional traits and religious beliefs, and provided detailed information on their hair, eye, and skin colours, facial structure.
He provided photographs of Germans identified as Nordic in places like Bedan, Stuttgart, Salzburg, and Schwaben; and provided photographs of Germans he identified as Alpine and Mediterranean types, especially in Vorarlberg, Bavaria, and the Black Forest region of Baden.
Podocarpus aristulatus is a small to medium-sized evergreen tree in the conifer family Podocarpaceae.
It is found on the Caribbean islands of Hispaniola and Cuba.
Podocarpus aristulatus grows to 10-20 m tall.
The leaves are elliptical to linear, 2-4&nbsp;cm long and 5-8&nbsp;mm broad, arranged spirally on the shoots.
The seed cones are berry-like, with fleshy red receptacle and one (occasionally two) apical seeds 7-10&nbsp;mm long.
In the mountainous regions of the central Dominican Republic, where it is known as Palo de Cruz (or wood of the cross) it is used for axe handles and pestles, because of the durable quality of the wood.
Its leaves are used for medicinal teas.
As part of the religious beliefs of the area, small pieces are placed above the door frame on the inside of houses as a way of warding off evil spirits.
Synonymy: Nageia aristulata, Podocarpus angustifolius var.
wrightii, Podocarpus buchii, Podocarpus angustifolius subsp.
buchii, Podocarpus leonii, Podocarpus angustifolius var.
leonii, Podocarpus victorinianus, Podocarpus angustifolius subsp.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to culture: Culture &ndash; set of patterns of human activity within a community or social group and the symbolic structures that give such activity significance.
Customs, laws, dress, architectural style, social standards, religious beliefs, and traditions are all examples of cultural elements.
(arranged by continent or major geopolitical region) (a region considered to be in both Asia and Europe, or between them) http://jmi.sagepub.com/content/21/2/141 DOI: 10.1177/1056492611415279 Anne E. Witte Making the Case for a Post-national Cultural Analysis of Organizations, Journal of Management Inquiry 2012 21: 141 originally published online 13 September 2011
In philosophy and psychology, an alief is an automatic or habitual belief-like attitude, particularly one that is in tension with a person’s explicit beliefs.
For example, a person standing on a transparent balcony may believe that they are safe, but alieve that they are in danger.
A person watching a sad movie may believe that the characters are completely fictional, but their aliefs may lead them to cry nonetheless.
A person who is hesitant to eat fudge that has been formed into the shape of feces, or who exhibits reluctance in drinking from a sterilized bedpan may believe that the substances are safe to eat and drink, but may alieve that they are not.
And a person who believes in racial equality may nonetheless have aliefs – subtle patterns of response associated with their implicit attitudes – that cause them to treat people of different racial groups in subtly different ways.
The term alief was introduced by Tamar Gendler, a professor of philosophy and cognitive science at Yale University, in a pair of influential articles published in 2008.
Since the publication of these original articles, the notion of alief has been utilized by Gendler and others—including Paul Bloom and Daniel Dennett—to explain a range of psychological phenomena in addition to those listed above, including the pleasure of stories, the persistence of positive illusions, certain religious beliefs, and certain psychiatric disturbances, such as phobias and obsessive–compulsive disorder.
And Thou Shalt Love ( ) is an Israeli short film.
It was directed by Chaim Elbaum.
The film examines the difficulties of being both an Orthodox Jew and gay.
The story is based on Elbaum's experiences with being gay.
It won the best drama award at the 2008 Jerusalem Film Festival.
Ohad, the protagonist, is serving in the Israel Defense Forces as a Hesder student.
He has not told anyone that he is gay.
He tries various ways of dealing with the conflict between his religious beliefs and his sexual orientation, including Atzat Nefesh.
He is told to spend forty days fasting and repenting to help rid him of his homosexual inclinations.
He does this and believes himself to be cured.
After this, his best friend, Nir, returns from leave.
Ohed is torn between his homosexuality and his religion.
The film deals with the struggles Ohed faces when it comes to loving God and loving Nir.
Lawrence E. Harrison (born March 11, 1932) is an American scholar known for his work on international development and being former USAID mission director to various Latin American countries.
He is the past director of the Cultural Change Institute at the Fletcher School, Tufts University, where he also served as an adjunct lecturer.& He is the author of various books and articles, most notably his work with Samuel P. Huntington, Culture Matters.
His work was cited thousands of times in books, journals, and other academic works.
He was also noted as an influence on USAID's policies.
His views created considerable disputes with some, such as Professor Noam Chomsky.
Harrison's main thesis is that culture is the dominant factor affecting progress and development of groups and nations.
While economic, historical, and geographical factors are relevant, Harrison suggests what ultimately determines whether a given group will enjoy economic prosperity in a free society is its cultural values.
Religious beliefs and other systems of values will greatly affect the development of a given nation, which explains, in his view, the lasting underdevelopment of nations like Haiti.
Life Before Life: A Scientific Investigation of Children's Memories of Previous Lives is a 2005 book written by psychiatrist Jim B. Tucker, which presents an overview of more than 40 years of reincarnation research at the University of Virginia, into children's reports of past-life memories.
The book also discusses "birthmarks and birth defects that match those of a deceased person who is identified by the child".
The foreword to the book is written by Ian Stevenson.
This book claims that consciousness can be considered separately from the brain, which provides a basis for claims of reincarnation.
Tucker discusses objections to reincarnation: the paucity of persons who actually claim to remember a past life, the fragility of memories, the population explosion, the mind—body problem, fraud, and others.
Tucker states that none of the cases examined are perfect, and that "faulty memory by informants" is seen to be the "best normal explanation for many of the cases" reviewed in the book.
The version of reincarnation discussed is typically incompatible with common religious beliefs around reincarnation, specifically in relation to karma.
Life Before Life has been reviewed in Philosophical Practice, and PsycCRITIQUES.
North Coast Women's Care Medical Group vs. Superior Court ( ) is a case decided before the California Supreme Court on August 19, 2008, ruling that physicians must offer IUI infertility services to gays and lesbians despite religious objections or find a colleague in their office who will do so.
The suit was brought by Guadalupe Benitez, a lesbian from Oceanside, California, who was treated in 1999 for infertility at the only clinic in her area that accepted her insurance.
Two physicians at the North Coast Women's Care Medical Group, Christine Brody and Douglas Fenton, refused to perform an artificial insemination treatment on Benitez because they claimed that such treatment to an unmarried person violated their Christian religious beliefs.
After she was denied treatment, Benitez argued in court that the physicians and the clinic really based their decision on her being a lesbian.
This violated the Unruh Civil Rights Act, a state law prohibiting discrimination based on sex, gender, sexual orientation, race, and ethnicity covering places of business and public accommodation; marital status was not addressed until 2006.
She won at the trial court level in San Diego, but that decision was later overturned by a state appeals court.
The California State Supreme Court's decision favoring Benitez was unanimous.
Writing for the court, justice Kennard said
Kiln gods (or goddesses) originated in ancient times when pottery first came about in places like China and Egypt it is not exactly clear.
They were made from clay left over from the pot or sculpture you are about to fire.
Some people leave the kiln gods with their natural clay colour when they dry out; but some have taken it upon themselves to paint them and give them more life.
The kiln god is never fired and left on top of a kiln, until it deteriorates over time.
Even though the kiln gods never get fired doesn't mean you can't fire them if you really wanted to.
When the kiln god is finished or you have gotten bored of it you just make another one.
Kiln gods are not based on religious beliefs (although some would argue otherwise) they are just there as a sort of good luck charm like a rabbit's foot or a four leaf clover.
Kiln gods have been based on many things like animals or the artists personal gods and beliefs, but they can be anything.
Lusi Sione is a former New Zealand rugby league player who played for Workington Town and represented the Canterbury and New Zealand 'A'.
Sione started his career in the Lion Red Cup, playing for the Canterbury Country Cardinals.
A Haswell Hornets club member, Sione represented New Zealand 'A' and played for the Canterbury Bulls in the Bartercard Cup, being part of the Bulls' grand final wins in 2000 and 2003.
He spent the 2002 season with Wellington, after following coach Gerard Stokes, but returned to Canterbury at the end of the year.
In 2004 he moved to England, playing for Workington Town.
He spent two years in England and during this time trialled for the Wigan Warriors.
However, because Sione will not play on Saturday due to religious beliefs he was not signed by the Super League club.
Sione won the 2004 overseas player of the year award.
Sione returned to New Zealand when his working visa expired in 2006.
Sione returned to the Bartercard Cup in 2006, again making the New Zealand Residents side.
Naea Tommy Irving Bennett (born 8 July 1977) of Tahiti is a footballer who plays as a striker for AS Pirae and also represents the Tahiti national beach soccer team.
He is son of Erroll Bennett, a former Tahitian footballer who was runner-up at 1973 and 1980 OFC Nations Cup.
Bennett is a Mormon and refuses to play football on Sundays.
In 2015, he refused to play in the 2015 FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup final due to his religious beliefs.
Alcide Laurin (1881 – February 24, 1905) was a Canadian ice hockey player who played for an Ontario based team in Alexandria, and is the first recorded player to die as a result of an on-ice incident in ice hockey.
On February 24, 1905, Laurin was beaten to death by 19-year-old Allan Loney, a player on a rival team from Maxville, Ontario.
Laurin took a shot in the chin, followed by a blow to the left temple from Loney's stick.
Soon after the incident, Laurin, 24 at the time, was pronounced dead on the ice.
Loney, a player who was infamous for his brutal on-ice violence, was charged with murder, which was later changed to manslaughter.
On March 29, after five hours of deliberation, the jury acquitted Loney after defense witnesses testified and claimed the blow to Laurin was either instinctive or was in self-defense.
All charges were dropped and the case was dismissed.
The Maxville-Alexandria rivalry was based around opposing religious beliefs held by both sides.
The Alexandria side of the rivalry was made up of Catholic French Canadians, contrary to the anglophone and Protestant beliefs of the Maxville population.
The Jewish Encyclopedia gives some statistics on conversion of Jews to Protestantism, to Roman Catholicism, and to Orthodox Christianity (which it calls erroneously Greek Catholicism; Greek or Byzantine Catholics are under the See of Rome, not in the Orthodox Church).
Some 2,000 European Jews converted to Christianity every year during the 19th century, but in the 1890s the number was running closer to 3,000 per year, &mdash; 1,000 in Austria Hungary (Galizian Poland), 1,000 in Russia (Poland, Belarus, Ukraine, and Lithuania), 500 in Germany (Posen), and the remainder in the English world.
The Rough Guide to Bob Dylan (2nd edition), Nigel Williamson, pgs.
112-113; Bob Dylan's Unshakeable Monotheism -- Part III: The 1980s in Jewsweek; "Bob Dylan" Encyclopædia Britannica; Bob Dylan Finds His Source, from Christianity Today, Noel Paul Stookey, January 4, 1980; [1]; [2]; [3]; [4]; [5]; [6]; [7]; [8]</ref> He later began studying with Chabad, a branch of Hasidic Judaism, though his current religious affiliation is uncertain.
See also information on Dylan's Conversion to Christianity, Born-again period and Religious beliefs.
Manimuzhakkam ( ) is a 1976 Malayalam–language feature film directed by P. A.
Backer and starring Harikeshan Thampi, Veeran, Johnson, Sankaradi, Saritha, Urmila, Vani, Charulatha, Santhakumari and Meena Ganesh.
The film was scripted by Backer based on the novel Murippaadukal by Sarah Thomas.
It won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Malayalam and the Kerala State Film Award for Best Film.
The film was shot in black-and-white even though colour films were common during those times.
Jose Paul is a young man brought up in a Roman Catholic orphanage and later transferred to his Hindu ancestral home, where he is subtly persuaded to conform to Hindu religious beliefs.
The film chronicles Jose's attempts to establish an identity for himself in a situation full of conflicts.
Charles de Clermont, called la Fontaine, was a Protestant preacher who was active in La Rochelle in 1557.
The arrival of Charles de Clermont followed a period of repression against Calvinist propagation, through the establishment of "Cours présidiaux" tribunals by Henry II.
An early result was the burning at the stake of two "heretics" in front of the Church of Notre-Dame de Cougne in 1552.
Conversions to Calvinism however continued, due to religious beliefs, but also to a desire for political independence on the part of the local elite, and a popular opposition to royal expenses and requisitions in the building projects to fortify the coast against the English.
Charles de Clermont was the first to give cohension to the Reformation movement in La Rochelle, which only consisted in a few isolated elements, with no Pastor or Temple, when he arrived in the city.
He was assisted by Jean de la Place, and it was in 1557 that "the truth of the Gospel began to be exercised in the right".
Charles de Clermont founded a group of about 50 souls that met in clandestinity.
Charles de Clermont was succeeded in 1558 by Pierre Richier returning from Brazil, who organized the congregation.
He became the first Pastor of La Rochelle and is considered as "the Father of the Church of La Rochelle".
Jamil Hassan ( ) was the head of the Syrian Air Force Intelligence Directorate and a close adviser to President Bashar al-Assad.
He was also one of the members of his close circle.
Hassan was appointed head of the Syrian Air Force Intelligence Directorate in 2009.
Hassan was sanctioned by the European Union on 9 May 2011.
He was added to the European Union's sanction list on the grounds that he "involved in violence against the civilian population" during the Syrian civil war.
On 29 June 2011, the United States also sanctioned him due to his involvement in human rights abuses in Syria.
According to Free Syrian Army reports he was assassinated on 26 August 2012 by an aide, who was an operative of the Ahfad al-Rasul Brigade.
However, Al Dunya, a pro-government TV channel, denied this report the same day.
The Control Council Law No.
1 – Repealing of Nazi Laws (in German Kontrollratsgesetz Nr.
1 betreffend die Aufhebung von NS-Recht (short form: Kontrollratsgesetz Nr.
1) was a law passed by the Allied Control Council for post-WWII Germany on 20 September 1945.
It repealed numerous pieces of legislation enacted by the Nazi regime.
Also, it prohibted the application of any German enactment that could discriminate against any person based on their race, nationality, religious beliefs opposition against the NSDAP.
By repealing the Enabling Act, theoretically the Weimar Constitution was reestablished, however the constitution stayed irrelevant on the grounds of the powers of the Allied Control Council acting as occupying forces.
The official text of the law was in the three languages of the occupying forces, a non-binding German translation was provided.
Signatories for the occupying forces were Bernard L. Montgomery (British), Louis Koeltz (French), Vassily Sokolovsky (Soviet) and Dwight D. Eisenhower (American).
In the Federal Republic of Germany the law became invalid with the First Law for Repealing Occupying Forces Legislation (Erstes Gesetz zur Aufhebung des Besatzungsrechts) (BGBl.
I p. 437) on 30 May 1955, with the previously repealed Nazi legislation staying invalid.
For the German Democratic Republic, the Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union repealed the law on 20 September 1955.
Christians in Benin constitute approximately 42.8 percent (~3,762,904) of the country's population (8,791,832 - 2009 est.)
According to the 2002 census, 27.1 percent of the population of Benin is Roman Catholic, 5 percent Celestial Christian, 3.2 percent Methodist, 7.5 percent other Christian groups (Baptists, Assemblies of God, Pentecostals, Seventh-day Adventists, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), Jehovah's Witnesses, Rosicrucians, the Unification Church).
Christianity first reached Benin in 1680, gaining more permanent footing in the 19th century.
English Methodists arrived in 1843, operating amongst the coastal Gun people.
The Catholic hierarchy in Benin consists of the Archdiocese of Cotonou (including the Dioceses of Abomey, Dassa-Zoumé, Lokossa, Porto Novo) and the Parakou (including the Dioceses of Djougou, Kandi, Natitingou, and N'Dali).
In 2011 it was reported that in Benin there were 440 priests and 900 men and women in religious orders.
Many nominal Christians also practice traditional local religious beliefs.
Christmas-Eve and Easter-Day, a Poem (1850) is, despite the title, often treated as two poems by Robert Browning, rather than as one poem in two parts.
It was the first new work published by Robert Browning after his marriage to Elizabeth Barrett Browning and their departure for Italy, and is widely considered to show the influence of his wife's religious beliefs.
"Christmas-Eve" is an account of a vision in which the narrator is taken to a Nonconformist church, to St. Peter's in Rome, to a Göttingen lecture theatre where a practitioner of the Higher criticism is discoursing on the Christian myth, and back to the Nonconformist church.
In "Easter-Day" a Christian and a sceptic debate the nature of faith.
Christmas-Eve and Easter-Day gives valuable clues to the religious opinions of Browning himself, as opposed to those of his characters, but, as his wife warned a correspondent, "Certainly the poem does not represent his own permanent state of mind, which was what I meant when I told you it was dramatic."
Christmas-Eve and Easter-Day was first published by Chapman & Hall in 1850.
In recent years it has been edited by Ian Jack, Rowena Fowler and Margaret Smith as part of The Poetical Works of Robert Browning, vol.
4 (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1991), and by John Woolford, Daniel Karlin and Joseph Phelan as part of The Poems of Browning, vol.
The Cathedral ( ) (1898) is a novel by the French writer Joris-Karl Huysmans.
A revised English edition was published in 2011.
It is the third of Huysmans' books to feature the character Durtal, a thinly disguised portrait of the author.
He had already featured the character of Durtal in Là-bas and En route, which recounted his conversion to Catholicism.
La Cathédrale continues the story.
After his retreat at a Trappist monastery, Durtal moves to the city of Chartres, renowned for its cathedral.
Huysmans describes the building in great detail.
Huysmans first published fourteen extracts from La cathédrale as a serial in the newspaper L'Écho de Paris, beginning on October 27, 1897.
The entire novel was published as a book in January 1898.
Some commentators questioned the sincerity of the author's religious beliefs, but the novel was the most commercially successful of Huysmans' works during his lifetime.
He retired from his job as a civil servant and lived on his royalties.
The novel was popular and sold the most of any of his works.
It was translated into English.
Due to its extensive details about the cathedral, tourists often used it as a guidebook.
In 2011, a revised edition was published in English.
The God Argument: The Case against Religion and for Humanism is a 2013 book by English philosopher and humanist, A. C. Grayling, which counters the arguments for the existence of God, and puts forward humanism as an alternative to religion.
Grayling is concerned with tone.
He states that he wrote the first half of the book "thoroughly and calmly to examine all the arguments offered in support of religious beliefs", such as the ontological argument for the existence of God, which he argues against in the first half of the book.
In the other half, he proposes humanism as a suitable substitute of religion for a moral life or what he calls a "good life".
According to his definition of humanism, if one believes that moral choices should be grounded in "the responsible use of reason" and "human experience in the real world" then one is a humanist.
Cleo Brown, later Cleo Patra Brown (December 8, 1909 – April 15, 1995) was an American blues and jazz vocalist and pianist.
Brown was born in Meridian, Mississippi, and sang in church as a child.
In 1919 her family moved to Chicago and she began studying piano; in the 1920s she began taking gigs in clubs and broadcast on radio.
From the 1930s to the 1950s she toured the United States regularly, recording for Decca Records (among other labels) along the way and recording many humorous, ironic titles such as "Breakin' in a Pair of Shoes", "Mama Don't Want No Peas and Rice and Coconut Oil" and "The Stuff Is Here and it's Mellow".
Her stride piano playing was often compared to Fats Waller.
In the 1940s, Brown began to shy away from singing bawdy blues songs because of her deepening religious beliefs and, in 1953, she retired and became a nurse.
She was rediscovered in the 1980s after being tracked down by Marian McPartland; she returned to record again and performed on National Public Radio.
She died on April 15, 1995 in Denver, Colorado, aged 85.
Some of Brown's earliest recordings have been reissued by Document Records.
John Charles "Johnny" Jameson (born 11 March 1958, Belfast) is a former Northern Ireland international footballer who played for Glentoran.
During his club career he played for Bangor, Huddersfield Town, Linfield, and Glentoran.
He was part of the team at the 1982 FIFA World Cup when Northern Ireland reached the second round.
However, he did not earn any senior caps, as his deeply held religious beliefs restricted his international career as he refused to play on a Sunday.
Like a number of professional Northern Irish footballers Jameson hailed from Rathcoole, near Belfast.
Chiang Mai International School is a K-12 International school founded in 1954 in Chiang Mai, Thailand by members of the Church of Christ in Thailand.
The school is approved by the Thai Ministry of Education, and is accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges.
Missionaries returning to work with the Church of Christ in Thailand (CCT) after World War II established a school for their children in Chiang Mai.
Classes began on June 1, 1954, with eight students.
In 1958, construction was begun on the present campus for "The Chiang Mai Children's Center."
As more expatriate families moved to Chiang Mai and sought an English language education for their children they, too, were accepted at the school.
CMIS's first priority is serving the educational needs of missionary families, while admitting international children from a variety of backgrounds, cultures, and religious beliefs.
In 1984, representatives of the Thai Foreign Ministry and the CCT agreed that the formal establishment of an international school in Chiang Mai was a necessary step to achieving the school's legal status.
Classes under the new name, "Chiang Mai International School" (CMIS) began in September 1985 for kindergarten to grade 8.
High school grades were progressively added from 1992 to 1995.
Mathias Chen Xilu (1928 – January 16, 2008) was a Chinese Roman Catholic bishop of Hengshui, Hebei.
He had been appointed to his post by the Vatican, and had been recognized by the government of the People's Republic of China.
Chen Xilu was born into a Catholic family in 1928.
He initially enrolled at a minor Catholic seminary at the age of 15 before entering a larger seminary in Shanghai in 1950.
He was ordained a priest in 1955 after which he worked as a doctor in a clinic in Jing county, Hebei province.
Chen was arrested for his religious beliefs in 1958.
He was sent to a hard labor camp from 1969 until 1979.
He returned to Hengshui diocese in 1979 following his release.
He succeeded Bishop Petrus Fan Wenxing in 1996.
The diocese consists of approximately 20,000 Roman Catholics.
Chen fell into a coma due to a brain hemorrhage in 2002 and died on January 16, 2008, of organ failure in Jing county, Hebei.
He was succeeded by Bishop Peter Feng Xinmao.
Kurisinkal Sebastian Manoj (born 19 April 1965) is a politician from Kerala and was a Member of Parliament (14th Lok Sabha), representing Alapuzha Lok Sabha constituency.
He contested the 2009 Lok Sabha elections from Alapuzha constituency as a Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI(M)) candidate.
Some of the most important bills presented by Manoj include "The Fishermen (Welfare) Bill 2005", "The Petrol Pump Workers (Welfare) Bill 2005" and "The Coir Factory Workers (Welfare) Bill 2006".
He resigned from CPI(M) on 9 January 2010, citing that the line of the party clashed with his religious beliefs.
Jumana Michael/Mikhail Hanna (born c. 1962) is an Iraqi woman of Assyrian Christian background who was imprisoned at the facility known as loose dog's during the rule of Saddam Hussein.
In July 2003, she attested to the Coalition Provisional Authority that she had been tortured during her time in the prison, due to her religious beliefs.
The evidence she provided eventually led to nine Iraqi officers being arrested.
Additionally, the Washington Post published her story, giving it precedence on the front page.
Paul Wolfowitz also cited the situation while testifying before the US Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
The nine Iraqi officers arrested on her testimony were released later when it became apparent that little of Ms. Hanna's tale could be verified.
Research by Esquire Magazine's Sara Solovitch, who had been hired to write Hanna's memoirs, revealed that almost every detail of the story was fabricated.
Daniel Andrew Seeger (born c. 1934) is a retired American non-profit-business administrator, and a Quaker religion and social-issue writer, who was earlier a defendant in a case on conscription of pacifists that was decided by the Supreme Court.
Seeger had come from a Roman Catholic background, been heavily influenced by Quaker ideas, and volunteered with the American Friends Service Committee (AFSC).
In 1958, he was denied conscientious-objector status under the 1948 military-draft law, on grounds that his religious beliefs did not constitute "belief in a Supreme Being"; he was eventually ordered to enter the armed forces, and convicted of draft refusal.
In 1965, the Supreme Court ruled in United States v. Seeger that his conviction was mistaken, because Congress, in its statutory language, "did not intend" using "the usual understanding" of "Supreme Being", but rather an interpretation that extended to Seeger's "compulsion" to "goodness".
On April 1, 2010, Seeger stepped into the role of Interim General Secretary at the AFSC, pending the conclusion of the search for a permanent General Secretary, following the resignation of Mary Ellen McNish on March 31.
José Mestre (born 26 of February 1956 in Lisbon, Portugal) is a man known for having a , haemangioma tumor on his face.
The tumor started forming on his lips when he was 14.
Mestre had not received treatment for the tumor due to "years of medical misinformation, some misdiagnosis, lack of finances, and reluctance to undergo treatment due to religious beliefs."
A documentary titled "The Man with No Face", part of the television series My Shocking Story, aired on the Discovery Channel on 6 December 2007.
In 2010, Mestre underwent four operations during a period of three months at Saint Joseph Hospital in Chicago.
The life-threatening tumor was completely removed by Dr. McKay McKinnon during the first procedure, with the following three operations necessary to reconstruct his face.
He was expected to return to Portugal a few weeks after the final operation.
Indochristian art or (arte indocristiano) is a type of Latin American art.
Spanish Franciscans, Dominicans and Augustinians in the 16th century introduced the native Indians to not only their religious beliefs, but the European arts and aesthetics.
Hand in hand, they learned about each other in a cultural exchange that gave birth to what we know as Indochristian Art.
There are very few sources that give credit to the intelligence, sensibility, enthusiasm and craftsmanship of the Indians involved in the construction and decoration of the Convents and Temples of the New Spain.
A seminal book on Arte Indocristiano by Constantino Reyes-Valerio (1978 first edition, redited in 2000) analysed in detail the work of native Mexicans under the guidance of Christian friars.
His work contains the story of those footprints of the past, welded as silent testimony of the Indians artistic activity in the disturbed Colonial world.
The story is also a struggle between Indians and Friars; the slow imposition of the European culture, pregnant of medieval preconceptions that cannot be forgotten if we are to understand the men that were immersed in that painful and yet emotional contact.
The lack of an adequate appraisal of the artistic work of the Indian in the 16th century and the extraordinary interest drawn by every manifestation of the Indians' presence paved the way for this work that include Sculpture and Painting; two unquestionable expressions of Indo-Christian Art, the magnificent legacy of the Indian of the Eternal Mexico.
A Beerwolf, (Bärwolf, Werwolf ) is a German folk-tale monster commonly known as a Werewolf.
Beerwolf is a concept introduced by Martin Luther (in a 1539 debate) that Luther uses to describe the Pope and Holy Roman Emperor Charles V. In the context of resistance theory, a "Beerwolf", "in contrast to a mere tyrant, not only broke the law, but overturned the entire moral order upon which it is based.
All the subjects of such a ruler ... had the right to resist and even to kill him and all his supporters".
The significance of the term lies in the fact that, for most of his life, Luther held that no subject could actively resist his secular ruler, an issue of obvious significance in a time when many rulers in the German lands and their respective subjects held competing religious beliefs.
The concept of Beerwolf marked Luther's final, and most extreme, position on resistance theory, as it relied on natural law (specifically, what would later come to be called Hobbes' right to self-preservation) instead of earlier and more limited rights to resistance that Luther had accepted as flowing from German constitutional law.
The concept of just rebellion that the term Beerwolf introduced was subsequently developed by fellow Protestants who faced a similar situation in France, the Huguenot Monarchomachs.
The Black Front ( ) was a Dutch fascist movement active before the Second World War.
The front grew out of the southern section of the General Dutch Fascist League, with regional organiser Arnold Meijer quarrelling with leader Jan Baars in 1934 and leading his followers out.
The Black Front emerged and soon took over a number of smaller movements, while also gaining some support among the poorer parts of society.
Although similar to its parent movement the Black Front emphasised a more Catholic line, in tune with Meijer's own religious beliefs.
Taking its cue in part from Italian fascism it adopted that movement's black shirted uniformed while adding a unique emblem featuring a sword between a pair of ram horns.
The group however struggled to gain support from the National Socialist Movement in the Netherlands and in 1940 was renamed as the National Front.
The National Front was ultimately banned by the Germans on 14 December 1941 along with all other Dutch political parties except for the National Socialist Movement in the Netherlands (NSB).
The majority of its members switched to the NSB although a disillusioned Meijer left politics altogether.
The Blessing of the Fleet is a tradition that began centuries ago in Mediterranean fishing communities.
The practice is predominantly Catholic and a blessing from the local priest was meant to ensure a safe and bountiful season.
In most ports, the event was brought by immigrants who held strongly to their Catholic religious beliefs.
The events that are part of the ritual vary by community and range from a simple ceremony to a multi-day festival including a Catholic mass, Parades, Pageantry, Dancing, Feasting and Contests.
Two bible verses used in Blessing of the Fleet are: Psalm 104, verses 24-31 & Psalm 107, verses 23-32.
The actual blessing used at Destin, Florida, is as follows: <blockquote> "Most gracious Lord, who numbered among your apostles the fishermen Peter, Andrew, James and John, we pray you to consecrate this boat to righteous work in your name.
Guide the captain at her helm.
So prosper her voyages that an honest living may be made.
Watch over her passengers and crew and bring them to a safe return.
And the blessing of God Almighty, the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, be upon this vessel and all who come aboard, this day and forever.
Most states of Australia have had ports and fishing community traditions of blessing the fleet The tradition of the blessing of the fleet is spread along the eastern seaboard
Bank Muamalat Malaysia Berhad (Jawi: بڠك معاملة مليسيا) started its operations on 1 October 1999 with a combined assets and liabilities brought over from the Islamic banking windows of the then Bank Bumiputra Malaysia Berhad, Bank of Commerce (M) Berhad and BBMB Kewangan.
Bank Muamalat Malaysia Berhad, the second full-fledged Islamic bank to be established in Malaysia after Bank Islam Malaysia Berhad, is poised to play its role in providing Islamic banking products and services to Malaysians, without regard to race or religious beliefs.
DRB Hicom holds 70% shares in the Bank while Khazanah Nasional Berhad holds the remaining shares.
Ashtasahasram ( ) is a sub-sect of the Iyer community of Tamil Brahmins from the Indian state of Tamil Nadu.
According to one popular view, the Ashtasahasrams originate from a village called Ennaiyiram, which translates to "eight thousand", the Tamil counterpart of the Sanskrit word "Ashtasahasram".
The name of the community is derived from the Sanskrit word "Ashtasahasram" meaning "eight thousand".
According to popular belief, Ashtasahasram are believed to have migrated to their present habitations as a body of eight thousand individuals.
However, according to another belief, the Ashtasahasram originate from a village near Tindivanam called "Ennayiram", which in Tamil translates to eight thousand.
The Ashtasahasram community is further sub-divided into four groups: The community are part of the Smartha sect and as such worship all the major Hindu deities.
They are fewer in number as compared to Vadamas and Brahacharanams.
The traditional occupation of the community is to function as household priests and to study and impart Vedic knowledge.
However, in recent times, like other communities, they hold diversified occupations.
As early as the Medieval Chola period, there have been records of Brahmins of the village of Ennaiyiram indulging in trade and commerce.
Many also work as temple priests.
J Padmanabha Iyer, Diwan-Peshkar of Travancore
Atheism Conquered ( ) is a philosophical work by the Italian Dominican philosopher Tommaso Campanella.
Campanella himself viewed it as a watershed in his thinking, signaling his detachment from the more openly rationalist positions of his youth and his move toward a more sincere adherence to Christian principles.
He described the work as a "volume against politicians and Machiavellians".
Central to the work is his polemic against both reason of state and Machiavelli's conception of religion as a political invention, one devised by priests and politicians to gain and maintain power.
This polemic is coupled with the need to undertake a far-reaching rational examination, passing in review and evaluating all religious beliefs and philosophical doctrines in order to demonstrate that religion is a natural virtue inborn in human beings.
A further motive of his research is to ascertain the relationship between natural religion and Christianity, which leads to the conclusion that there is no conflict between Christian law and natural law but instead a profound and fundamental agreement, since Christ did not nullify and abolish natural law but rather added to it moral precepts and rites that completed and perfected it.
The work was written in Italian in 1606-1607, during his imprisonment in Neapolitian castles for being accused of leading a conspiracy against the Spanish rule in his hometown of Stilo.
The treaty was not published until immediately after it was written, due to the suspicions of the ecclesiastical authorities, who accused the work of Pelagianism.
Ellu is an Isoko, countryside community in Delta State of Nigeria that was founded around the 18th century.
Bounded in the north by Emu-Uno community, in the south by Ozoro and Idheze communities, in the east by Ofagbe community, and in the west by Owhelogbo community, Ellu is located within longitude 6'13 East and latitude 5'36 North.
These geographical boundaries incorporate Aradhe and Ovrode communities, which are Ellu's sister communities in the north and east, respectively.
According to the 1995 National census, Ellu has a population of 10,000 people.
While a large proportion of the inhabitants of Ellu are subsistence farmers, a growing number are civil servants and small-scale entrepreneurs.
The Ovie of Ellu is the traditional head of the community.
Majority of the people are professed Christians while a dwindling number still practise the African Traditional Religion.
The community has two public primary schools, a public secondary school, and a number of private schools.
A government-funded health care centre is also located in the community.
Ehi is the name of a personal spirit in some West African religious beliefs, especially in southwestern Nigeria and Benin.
Ehi means "genius", but it also means "angel" in some Nigerian languages and refers to a spirit possessing a man, similar to a guardian angel.
Ehi is a component of a person that remains with the supreme deity Osa.
A person's ehi guides them through their life in the agbon, or material world, while interacting with other spirits in the erinmwin, or spirit world.
The ehi remains with the person during the day, and returns to report to Osa at night.
Ehi is viewed as a cult in parts of western Africa with a "moderated initiative" where many believe that lack of success can be blamed on the Ehi possessing a man.
The Ehi is said to be "constantly sacrificed" in gratitude for success or for guidance in difficult times.
Bradbury says of it, "Close as a man and his ehi are they are yet thought of as being independent agents and so there is a possibility of conflict between them.
Ehi must, therefore, be propritiated in much the same way as other supernatural entities and failure to do this results in trouble.
El Color De Los Sueños is an album released in 1998 by Mexican singer Fey.
The album was much less successful than the artist's previous album, Tierna La Noche, arguably because of the controversies that came about during this time.
Fey's age, marital status and religious beliefs were all questioned intensely by the media, which also criticized Fey's management for wanting to create a diva out of Fey.
It was also during this time that the artist's mysterious retirement announcement came about.
In later interviews, Fey would go on to blame her retirement on the huge amount of work set on her by her manager, and then-boyfriend, Mauri Stern.
Despite the controversies the album still charted at #1 in Mexico along with many of its singles reaching the top spots.
The album also spun a worldwide successful tour of the same name.
The album to date has sold more than 2.000.000 copies worldwide.
The book "New Bottles for New Wine" by Julian Huxley, 1957, contains a collection of his essays beginning with "Transhumanism" and ending with "Evolutionary Humanism".
In the latter essay, Huxley called for a new religion compatible with science.
'Evolutionary Humanism' is the English language name of a book by Dr Michael Schmidt-Salomon which suggests that evolutionary theory has implications for morality.
Schmidt argues that the theory of evolution does not prescribe a particular set of moral values but it does require people to consider their moral principles free from religious beliefs.
Belief in evolution should be combined with a modern humanist philosophy.
Another theory of 'Evolutionary Humanism' is being developed by self-styled philosopher, Roland Herrmann, which holds that human behaviors, emotions, morals, feelings, and thought processes can be traced backward along the human evolutionary tree, rising in earlier animals.
The theory holds that these emotions and behaviors are present on a variety of levels in various other species of animals, not only in primates and cetaceans in which these behaviors are most obvious.
By recognizing that other animals can be sentient and can have complex thought processes and relationships, a closer bond and stewardship of the planet is necessary.
Mr. Herrmann’s earlier website on this subject, www.evolutionaryhumanism.org, was transferred and is no longer associated with his school of thought.
The Dordrecht Confession of Faith is a statement of religious beliefs adopted by Dutch Mennonite leaders at a meeting in Dordrecht, the Netherlands, on 21 April 1632.
Its 18 articles emphasize belief in salvation through Jesus Christ, baptism, nonviolence (non-resistance), shunning those who are excommunicated from the Church, feet washing, and avoidance of taking oaths.
It was an influential part of the Radical Reformation and remains an important religious document to many modern Anabaptist groups such as the Amish.
In 1725, Jacob Gottschalk met with sixteen other ministers from southeastern Pennsylvania and adopted the Dutch Mennonite Dordrecht Confession of Faith (1632).
They also wrote the following endorsement which he was the first to sign:  <blockquote>We the hereunder written Servants of the Word of God, and Elders in the Congregation of the People, called Mennonists, in the Province of Pennsylvania, do acknowledge, and herewith make known, that we do own the foregoing Confession, Appendix, and Menno's Excusation, to be according to our Opinion; and also, have took the same to be wholly ours.
In Testimony whereof, and that we believe that same to be good, we have here unto Subscribed our Names.<
The Dictionnaire Historique et Critique (English: Historical and Critical Dictionary) is a biographical dictionary written by Pierre Bayle (1647–1706), a Huguenot who lived and published in Holland after fleeing his native France due to religious persecution.
The dictionary was first published in 1697, and enlarged in the second edition of 1702.
An English translation was first published in 1709.
The overwhelming majority of the entries are devoted to individual people, whether historical or mythical, but some articles treat religious beliefs and philosophies.
Many of the more controversial ideas in the book were hidden away in the voluminous footnotes, or slipped into articles on seemingly uncontroversial topics.
The rigor and skeptical approach used in the Dictionary influenced many thinkers of the Enlightenment, including Denis Diderot and the other Encyclopédistes, David Hume, and George Berkeley.
Bayle delighted in pointing out contradictions between theological tenets and the supposedly self-evident dictates of reason.
Bayle used the evidence of the irrationality of Christianity to emphasize that the basis of Christianity is faith in God and divine revelation.
But at the same time Bayle sought to promote religious tolerance, and argued strongly against inflexible and authoritarian application of religious articles of faith.
This led to a bitter argument with his fellow French Protestant Pierre Jurieu.
"Eternal Life" is a song composed by Jeff Buckley and is track #9 on his album Grace.
It also has a video.
It is believed to have been influenced by a long-time love for Led Zeppelin's music and a wish to emulate them in this song.
The track is something of an exception on the album, featuring aggressive, overdriven guitar noises that contrast with the more intimate, low-key format that otherwise characterizes the album.
"Eternal Life" can also be found on his 1993 EP Live at Sin-é.
Captured on the Live at Sin-é release, is an explanation as to the meaning of this song: "This is a song about...it's an angry song.
Life's too short and too complicated for people behind desks and people behind masks to be ruining other people's lives, initiating force against other people's lives, on the basis of their income, their color, their class, their religious beliefs, their whatever..." In Jeff's own words, "Eternal Life" was inspired by anger over "the man that shot Martin Luther King, World War II, slaughter in Guyana and the Manson murders."
Giuseppe Maria Bernini (1709&ndash;1761) was an Italian Capuchin missionary and Orientalist.
Bernini was born at Gargnano in Lombardy.
He met Horatio della Penna of the Tibetan mission in Roman, and himself travelled to Lhasa.
He acquired a knowledge of the languages and dialects of India.
He died at Bettiah in India.
In his travels through the country he made a study of the manners, customs, and religious beliefs and practices of the people.
The results of his studies were collected in his work: "Notizie laconiche di alcuni usi, sacrifizi, ed idoli nel regno di Neipal, raccolte nel anno 1747".
This work has never been published, but was preserved in manuscript in the library of the Propaganda at Rome, and in the museum of Cardinal Borgia.
Bernini also wrote "Dialogues", in one of the Indian languages, also preserved in manuscript in the Propaganda; a translation of "Adhiatma Ramayana"; one of "Djana Sagara", and a collection of historical studies under the title, "Mémoires historiques" (Verona).
Gebre Krestos ( , "Servant/Slave of Christ") was (24 March 1832 – 8 June 1832) of Ethiopia.
He was the son of Gebre Mesay, allegedly a descendant of a younger son of Emperor Fasilides.
He was a figurehead, set on the throne by the Enderase or Regent, Ras Ali II an Oromo princeling of the district of Yejju; but shortly afterwards Ali II deposed Gebre Krestos in favor of his brother Sahle Dengel.
The clergy of Azazo disapproved of Sahle Dengel for his religious beliefs, and they convinced Ras Ali to recall Gebre Krestos from exile on Mitraha, an island in Lake Tana, and restore him as Emperor.
Gebre Krestos then reigned three months until his death; he was buried at the convent of Tekle Haymanot in Adababay.
E.A.
Wallis Budge reports that some authorities believe he was poisoned.
After an interregnum of a few months, the throne was once again held by his brother Sahle Dengel.
Vaccine-naïve is a lack of immunity, or immunologic memory, to a disease because the person has not been vaccinated.
There are a variety of reasons why a person may not have received a vaccination including contraindications due to preexisting medical conditions, lack of resources, previous vaccination failure, religious beliefs, personal beliefs, fear of side-effects, phobias to needles, lack of information, vaccine shortages, physician knowledge and beliefs, and social pressure.
Communicable diseases, such as measles and influenza, are more readily spread in vaccine-naïve populations, causing frequent outbreaks.
Vaccine-naïve persons threaten what epidemiologists call herd immunity.
This is because vaccinations provide not just protection to the those who receive them, but also provide indirect protection to those who remain susceptible because of the reduced prevalence of infectious diseases.
Fewer individuals available to transmit the disease, reduce the incidence of it, creating herd immunity.
The Vava'u Code was instituted in Vava'u, Tonga in 1839, by King George Tupou I.
It contained the country's first ever written laws, and formed the bases of the first constitution of the Kingdom.
George Tupou I ruled with the support of Methodist missionaries, a religion he had converted to.
The Vava'u Code was strongly influenced by his religious beliefs.
It instituted basic human rights and limited the power of chiefs over their subjects: chiefs no longer had the right of life and death over their people, nor could they seize agricultural produce.
Furthermore, chiefs could now be put on trial like any other Tongan.
In addition, the Code banned traditional festivals seen by missionaries as encouraging sexual promiscuity.
Circumcision, tattooing and alcohol drinking were also outlawed.
Sundays became a compulsory day off work, to encourage Tongans to worship the Christian God.
The Vava'u Code was followed and completed by further laws, including a second Code in 1850 forbidding the sale of land to foreigners and proclaiming Tupou as supreme leader of Tonga.
Zsuzsanna Lorántffy, anglicized as Susanna Lorantffy (1602, Ónod, Hungary &ndash; 1660, Sárospatak, Hungary) was the wife of György Rákóczi I, Prince of Transylvania.
A passionate Calvinist, she assisted her husband in his successful struggle to introduce Protestant reforms in the Transylvanian church.
Under her influence, John Amos Comenius, a promininent Calvinist teacher, took up residence in Sárospatak.
Her older son, George II Rákóczi, became Prince of Transylvania.
Her younger son, Sigismund Rákóczi (1622-1652), was married to Henriette Marie of the Palatinate, daughter of Elizabeth of Bohemia.
She founded or sponsored several educational establishments, notably the Reformed College at Sárospatak.
Her Protestant religious beliefs compelled her to shun the pampered life of an aristocrat and instead to express her religion through action especially through development of girls' education.
While living in Nagyvárad she ensured that girls were taught not only the skills needed to run a home and bring up a family, but also to read, write, and do arithmetic.
They were to be versed in the Bible.
She sponsored the Várad Bible, a completely new translation (and not a reproduction of the Vizsoly Bible).
Étienne de la Croix (Diocese of Évreux, 1579–1643), was a French Jesuit, missionary to India and author of a life of St Peter in Marathi: Discurso sobre a vida do Apostolo Sam Pedro em que se refuta os principaes erros do gentilismo (Goa, 1629).
De la Croix entered the Society of Jesus in 1599, and arrived in India in 1602.
He succeeded the English Jesuit Thomas Stephens as Rector of the College at Rachol.
He seems to have made a study of the Hindu Puranas and religious beliefs.
A list of references given in his works shows that he used at least 26 Hindu puranas in the composition of his own purana.
His Peter Purana, as it is popularly known, consisted of 12,000 ovis (verses) in a Marathi that contained a significant number of Konkani words and expressions.
He also wrote in Konkani language, though none of these works survive, according to Alexandre Rhodes, writing in 1621.
In contrast to Thomas Stephens' Khristapurana, the Peter Purana is far more polemical.
The Kara Neumann case was an incident in which parents of a sick child refused to treat her with anything other than prayer, resulting in the child's death.
The 11-year-old child, Madeline Kara Neumann, of Weston, Wisconsin, died of undiagnosed diabetes on March 23, 2008, after Kara's parents, Leilani and Dale Neumann knelt in prayer beside their dying daughter instead of seeking medical help.
The parents were Pentecostals who did not belong to any identifiable church or religious organization.
They had obtained medical care in the past, but at some point came to believe that there are spiritual root causes to sickness and that prayer and strong religious beliefs will cure any health problems.
They decided not to go to doctors for treatment anymore, out of a belief that they would be “putting the doctor before God,” amounting to idolatry and sin.
The parents were charged with second-degree reckless homicide by the Marathon County District Attorney in separate trials.
Dale Neumann was convicted on May 22, 2009, and Leilani was convicted on August 1, 2009.
On October 6, 2009, both parents were sentenced to 10 years of probation, with 6 months jail time to be served over a six-year period.
On July 3rd, 2013, by a 6-to-1 margin the Wisconsin Supreme Court upheld the convictions.
Kara Neumann's case has sparked renewed discussion about faith healing in the United States.
Kanmazha Peyyum Munpe ( ) is a 2009 Malayalam film directed by Roy starring Arun and Shafna is main roles.
The film tells the story of friendship and love in campus.
This film narrates the life of a family when the elder boy of the family, on whom all the hopes rested, got attracted by communist ideologies, renounces religious beliefs, get involved in bloody politics and an attempted murder and was forced to go in exile.
From there he and his friend were taken to a terrorist outfit and were eventually shot dead in the encounter between militants and security forces.
The film gives the message of the value of family, faith and social living.
Kaidupur is an Indian village situated in Patiala District, Punjab.
It lies on the Nabha-Bhadson road with Nabha being nine km away on one side and Bhadson on the other.
Although small in size, Kaidupur is big in name due to its people.
There are the famous Dera that are scantily clad for religious purposes and believe in the philosophy of self detachment.
Late St. Radha muni was the founder of spiritual practices and religious beliefs.
He is also said to have established the first Durga Mandir in the village premises about four decades ago.
The main occupation of the people in Kaidupur is agriculture.
The chief attire of the people is traditional Punjabi.
Halal-TV is a Swedish television show, based on the Dutch show De Meiden van Halal.
The program is hosted by three young veiled Muslim women who portray the Swedish society from their perspective.
It consisted of eight episodes and was broadcast on SVT2 in the fall of 2008.
The program sparked controversy before the first episode had been broadcast.
For example, one of the hosts, Cherin Awad, had made a statement in the show Existens five years earlier which some interpreted as her condoning stoning because of sexual infidelity.
Another controversy surrounded the politician Carl B Hamilton who was interviewed in one episode.
When meeting the hosts, he insisted on shaking their hands.
Two of the hosts, did however refuse to shake Hamiltons hand, as they thought that violated their religious beliefs.
This sparked a heated discussion between Hamilton and the hosts which was later published by SVT and spread on the Internet.
Hinduism is a minority religion in Korea.
Through Buddhism, it has also had an indirect impact on certain aspects of traditional Korean thought.
The Four Heavenly Kings that can be seen in Korean Buddhist temples originated from the Lokapālas.
There is no presence of Hinduism in North Korea.
There are two Hindu temples in the Seoul region, the Sri Radha Shyamasundar Mandir and the Sri Sri Radha Krishna temple, located on Seoul's outskirts, approximately 2 hours from the city centre.
South Korea is home to a small number of migrants, including students and engineers, from countries such as India and Nepal many of whom are Hindu.
Yoga has also gained increasing popularity in recent years.
Sri Radha Shyamasundar Mandir is open daily, at specific times in the morning and evening.
The temple offers various services to the mostly migrant Hindu community, including children's classes, religious courses, festivals and ceremonies, such as weddings, as well as groceries for vegetarians.
Though South Korea is mostly secular, the range of religious beliefs displayed is quite broad.
While Korean Shamanism shares some similarities with Hinduism, most religious people adhere to either Buddhism or Christianity, and there remains a strong Confucian presence.
Pagan Theology: Paganism as a World Religion is a taxonomical study of various world religions which argues for a new definition of the word "paganism".
It was written by the British religious studies scholar Michael York of Bath Spa University and first published by New York University Press in 2003.
In Pagan Theology, York presents his controversial theory that the term "paganism", originally a pejorative term to refer to non-Christian religions, should instead be used by scholars to refer specifically to those religious movements who share the common characteristics of polytheism, animism and life-affirming beliefs.
Under this category of "paganism", York therefore includes the extinct historical faiths of pre-Christian Europe, living indigenous religions, several modern religions like Shinto and Hinduism, and the new religious movements of contemporary Paganism.
Furthermore, York argues that this "paganism" was the "root religion" of humanity, from which later monotheistic religions like Judaism, Christianity and Islam developed.
Academic reviews of York's book were mixed, with reviewers making note of the ambitious nature of Pagan Theology, but some believing that it failed to present an entirely convincing argument.
As a result of this, not all of them agreed with York's proposed categories, citing various reasons why they believed that it should not be employed.
In the wider field of Pagan studies it has been criticised, most notably by Michael F. Strmiska, who argued that it contributed to the cultural oppression of indigenous peoples.
At the time of writing, York was a self-proclaimed "pagan practitioner" as well as a religious studies academic.
Commenting on his own personal religious and spiritual beliefs, York related that: In his introduction, York explains his approach to religion, which he chooses to define as "a shared apprehension of the world, humanity, and the supernatural and their interrelation."
He proceeds to use a map as a metaphor for religion, noting that both help the individual to navigate their own way through the world.
Exclaiming that paganism should be seen as a religion in itself, he criticises earlier religious studies scholars for failing to devote time to a discussion of this term, whose etymology he then explains.
In the next chapter, entitled "Paganism as Religion", York argues that religious studies scholars should not use "paganism" in reference purely to pre-Christian religions in Europe or Neopaganism, but expand it to refer to a far wider group of animistic, polytheistic beliefs across the world.
Putting together a list of five criteria that believes can be used to define "paganism", he then explores a series of seven different religious groups or beliefs and explains how they fit into this category of his: Chinese Folk Religion, Shinto, Primal Tribal Religions, shamanism, American Indian Spirituality, Afro-American Spiritism, and Contemporary Western Paganism.
In Pagan Theology, York exclaims that his purpose is to "expand the concept of paganism."
Noting that the term had been originally employed by the early Christians of the Roman Empire to describe adherents of non-Jewish religions, he notes that the pre-Christian and pre-Islamic beliefs of Europe that this initial description covered are similar to other Indigenous religions across the world, and so should also be considered to be "pagan".
As such, York argues that religious studies scholars should define "paganism" as a religion utilising five specific criteria, all of which were exhibited in the pre-Christian religions of Europe: York argues that many of the world's religious movements fit these criteria and should therefore be labelled "pagan".
This includes the original pre-Christian religions of Europe, and the Contemporary Pagan, or Neopagan religions inspired by them.
To this he adds indigenous religions from North America, Australia and Africa, as well as the religions of the African diaspora such as Vodou and Santeria.
He furthermore includes two east Asian faiths, Chinese traditional religion and Japanese Shinto, as well as any practices involving shamanism.
Utilising the figures for global religious adherence that were published by David Barrett in his World Christian Encyclopedia (1982), York argues that by the year 2000, 6% of the world's population would be "pagan" under his definition of the term.
According to his reckoning, this makes paganism one of the world's major religious blocs, alongside the "Christian-Islamic" bloc, the "nonreligious/atheist" bloc, the "Hindu-Buddhist" bloc, the "new religious" block and the "other" bloc, and that as such it should be defined as a world religion with global coverage.
In her review for the Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion, Melissa Raphael of the University of Gloucestershire argued that York's work "does well to remind us that the religious academy has for too long patronized, ignored or (innacurately) consigned pagan religion and spirituality to the "odds and ends" bin of the New Age movement."
Considering Pagan Theology to be a "dense and serious study", that was based upon York's "exceptionally well traveled" experiences, Raphael noted however that it was "not quite what I was expecting.
The main title would have led me to believe that I had found a book on the divine in Western, earth-based neo-pagan religions.
Pagan Theology is a good deal more ambitious than that".
Raphael proceeded to argue that she was "disappointed" that the work "paid little attention to the inflections of gender", in particular considering the prominent role held by female deities in most of the pagan religions described in the book.
She also felt some "disquiet" that the word "theology" was being used by York in reference to certain religious groups for whom "the philosophical and cultural freighting of both logos and theos are categorically and conceptually alien".
Furthermore, she expressed concern over the fact that "many of the religions to which York ascribes paganism would disown it" whilst others would "deny that they share any common essence with other religions."
In her review for the Sociology of Religion journal, Mary Jo Neitz of the University of Missouri noted that she agreed with York that "paganism is a legitimate category of religion for both practitioners and for those of us who study religion."
Nonetheless, she disagreed with his position of "establishing universal definitions of paganism as a world religion or an essential practice", arguing that in doing so he was "gloss[ing] over significant differences" between different religious groups by "universalizing" them under cover-all categories.
On a more positive note, she felt that the book would be a useful text for those studying courses on world religions, aiding students in asking the question as to "what scholars mean by the category of world religion itself, and who is served by maintaining the traditional boundaries which establish those belief systems and practices that count as insider and those which must be cast outside."
Writing in The Pomegranate: The International Journal of Pagan Studies, Barbara Jane Davy of Concordia University described Pagan Theology as being "Part travelogue, part theological argument, [and] part sociological study", providing a "tour through paganism's multiple forms in space and time."
Believing that York had presented "a good argument" for using the term "paganism" to refer to a global "root religion", she noted however that "Some readers will sense a conflict between York's presentation of paganism as a world religion and as root religion.
This perhaps derives from an ambiguity in his desires about paganism: for it to be a 'proper' religion, worthy of study, and a legitimate form of religious practice, but also to present it as distinctive, unlike all other religion, and as foundational to all religion."
She also praised his use of the lower case "paganism" to refer to the global phenomenon, arguing that it "differentiates his subject matter from what is usually understood in Pagan studies as contemporary Paganism, Neopaganism, or sometimes modern or Western Paganism."
Ultimately, she remarked that her "only complaint" was that she would have liked to have seen York "relate his understanding of paganism to Robert Redfield's understanding of folk practices in terms of "little traditions" as opposed to the institutionalized "great traditions" usually identified as "world religions," discussed in The Little Community and Peasant Society and Culture (1969)."
Writing in volume 6.1 of The Pomegranate: The International Journal of Pagan Studies (2004), the journal's editor, Chas S. Clifton of Colorado State University–Pueblo, made reference to York's work in his discussion of the definition of Pagan studies.
Clifton proceeded to argue that the development of Pagan studies was necessary to "set forth an audacious redefinition of the term "pagan" as Michael York has done", something which Clifton felt "gives us room to reexamine from fresh perspectives all manifestation of ancient Pagan religions".
Writing in the opening paper of his edited academic anthology Modern Paganism in World Cultures: Comparative Perspectives (2005), the American religious studies scholar Michael F. Strmiska, then working at Central Connecticut State University, commented on York's argument in Pagan Theology, noting that it was the same as that made by the political scientist and practicing Wiccan Gus DiZerega in his book Pagans and Christians: The Personal Spiritual Experience (2001).
Although considering such a theory to be "thought provoking", Strmiska ultimately rejected it because he felt that "blurring together the religious identities of these many different peoples, with their vastly different historical and contemporary situations, does a disservice to Indigenous peoples' struggles for postcolonial self-determination by conflating them with the very peoples they see as their oppressors and colonizers."
Although accepting that "modern Euro-American Pagans" were often "sympathetic" to Indigenous peoples and "interested in learning aspects" of their "cultural and religious traditions", Strmiska noted that the "contemporary situations" between the two ethno-cultural groups was "quite different" and that this "brutal social reality and the immense historical, economic, and political realities that lie behind it cannot be bridged by a simple labelling process or ameliorated by a unilateral proclamation of spiritual unity between modern Pagans and Indigenous peoples."
Strmiska also felt that it was "worth observing the simple courtesy of calling people by the names they wish to be known by and not calling them by names they reject or are uncomfortable with.
The designations Pagan and Paganism, let alone Neopagan or Neopaganism, are not the terms of choice that Native Americans or other Indigenous peoples usually apply to themselves and their religious traditions."
He proceeded to argue that "[d]isagreements over terminology may seem petty or trivial, but they are not if we consider what is at stake for modern Pagans."
In particular, he noted both the historical persecution of those labelled pagans and the continued "legal and political" oppression of modern Pagans.
Marcella Maria Althaus-Reid (Rosario, Santa Fe, 1952 – Edinburgh, 20 February 2009) was Professor of Contextual Theology at New College, University of Edinburgh.
When appointed, she was the only woman professor of theology at a Scottish University, and the first woman professor of theology at New College in its 160 year history.
She was born in Rosario, , and graduated with a Bachelor in Theology Degree from ISEDET, the Protestant University Institute in Buenos Aires.
She completed her Ph.D at the University of St Andrews, Scotland.
Her interests included Liberation Theology, Feminist theology and Queer Theology.
Prof Althaus-Reid died on Friday 20 February 2009, in Edinburgh, Scotland.
Althaus-Reid was born in Rosario, Argentina.
She grew up in Buenos Aires, where she graduated with a BA in Theology from the ISEDET ecumenical theological institution in Buenos Aires, oriented toward liberation theology.
She studied with liberation theologians including Jose Miguez Bonino and Jose Severino Croatto.
She was a member of the Evangelical Methodist Church of Argentina.
She followed the methods of Paulo Freire, undertaking community and social projects supported by the church in impoverished neighborhoods of Buenos Aires.
Due to her experience and accomplishments in this regard, Althaus-Reid was invited to Scotland, where she worked in poor neighborhoods of Dundee and Perth, coordinating projects inspired by the liberationist pedagogy of Freire.
She completed her doctorate in 1994 at the University of St Andrews, Scotland, writing her doctoral thesis on the influence of Paul Ricoeur in the methodology of liberation theology.
Subsequently, she was appointed Professor of Contextual Theology at New College, University of Edinburgh.
Her academic interests included liberation theology, feminist theology and queer theology.
She was associate editor of the journal Studies in World Christianity and a member of the editorial board of the journal Concilium.
Althaus-Reid died on February 20, 2009, in Edinburgh, Scotland, where she had lived since 1986.
At the time of her death she was Director of the International Association for Queer Theology, Director of the Queer Theology Project at the University of Edinburgh, and a member of the Metropolitan Community Church.
In the last years of her life, she worked with the Argentine theologian Ivan Petrella to publicize liberation theology in the English-speaking world.
A volume celebrating Althaus-Reid's contribution to theology was published in 2010:
Charles Hodge (December 27, 1797 – June 19, 1878) was an important Presbyterian theologian and principal of Princeton Theological Seminary between 1851 and 1878.
He was a leading exponent of the Princeton theology, an orthodox Calvinist theological tradition in America during the 19th century.
He argued strongly for the authority of the Bible as the Word of God.
Many of his ideas were adopted in the 20th century by Fundamentalists and Evangelicals.
Charles Hodge's father, Hugh, was the son of a Scotsman who emigrated from Northern Ireland early in the eighteenth century.
Hugh graduated from Princeton College in 1773 and served as a military surgeon in the Revolutionary War, after which he practiced medicine in Philadelphia.
He married well-born Bostonian orphan Mary Blanchard in 1790.
The Hodge's first three sons died in the Yellow Fever Epidemic of 1793 and another yellow fever epidemic in 1795.
Their first son to survive childhood, Hugh Lenox, was born in 1796.
Hugh Lenox would become an authority in obstretics, and he would remain especially close with Charles, often assisting him financially.
Charles was born on December 27, 1797.
His father died seven months later of complications from the yellow fever he had contracted in the epidemic of 1795.
They were brought up by relatives, many of whom were wealthy and influential.
Mary Hodge made sacrifices and took in boarders in order to put the boys through school.
She, with the help of the family's minister Ashbel Green, also provided the customary Presbyterian religious education using the Westminster Shorter Catechism.
They moved to Somerville, New Jersey in 1810 in order to attend a classical academy, and again to Princeton in 1812 in order to enter Princeton College, a school originally organized to train Presbyterian ministers.
As Charles prepared to enter the college, Princeton Theological Seminary was being established by the Presbyterian Church as a separate institution for training ministers in response to a perceived inadequacy in the training ministers were receiving at the University as well as the perception that the college was drifting from orthodoxy.
Also in 1812, Ashbel Green, the Hodge's old minister, became president of the college.
At Princeton, the first president of the new seminary, Archibald Alexander, took a special interest in Hodge, assisting him in Greek and taking him with him on itinerant preaching trips.
Hodge would name his first son after Alexander.
Hodge became close friends with future Episcopalian bishops John Johns and Charles McIlvaine, and future Princeton College president John Mclean.
In 1815, during a time of intense religious fervor among the students encouraged by Green and Alexander, Hodge joined the local Presbyterian church and decided to enter the ministry.
Shortly after completing his undergraduate studies he entered the seminary in 1816.
The course of study was very rigorous, requiring students to recite scripture in the original languages and to use the dogmatics written in Latin in the 17th-century by Reformed scholastic Francis Turretin as a theological textbook.
Professors Alexander and Samuel Miller also inculcated an intense piety in their students.
Following graduation from Princeton Seminary in 1819, Hodge received additional instruction privately from Hebrew scholar Rev.
Joseph Bates in Philadelphia.
He was licensed to preach by the Presbytery of Philadelphia in 1820, and he preached regularly as a missionary in vacant pulpits in the East Falls neighborhood of Philadelphia, the Frankford Arsenal in Philadelphia, and Woodbury, New Jersey over the subsequent months.
In 1820 he accepted a one-year appointment as assistant professor at Princeton Seminary to teach biblical languages.
In October of that year he traveled throughout New England to speak with professors and ministers including Moses Stuart at Andover Seminary and Nathaniel W. Taylor at Yale Divinity School.
In 1821 he was ordained a minister by the Presbytery of New Bruswick, and in 1822 he published his first pamphlet, which allowed Alexander to convince the General Assembly to appoint him full Professor of Oriental and Biblical Literature.
Financially stable, Hodge married Sarah Bache, Benjamin Franklin's great-granddaughter in the same year.
In 1824, Hodge helped to found the Chi Phi Society along with Robert Baird and Archibald Alexander.
He founded the quarterly Biblical Repertory in 1825 to translate the current scholarly literature on the Bible from Europe.
Hodge's study of European scholarship lead him to question the adequacy of his training.
The seminary agreed to continue to pay him for two years while he traveled in Europe to "round out" his education.
He supplied a substitute, John Nevin on his own expense.
From 1826 to 1828 he traveled to Paris, where he studied French, Arabic, and Syriac; Halle, where he studied German with George Müller and made the acquaintance of August Tholuck; and Berlin where he attended the lectures of Silvestre de Sacy, Ernst Wilhelm Hengstenberg, and August Neander.
There he also became personally acquainted with Friedrich Schleiermacher, the leading modern theologian.
He admired the deep scholarship he witnessed in Germany, but thought that the attention given philosophy clouded common sense, and lead to speculative and subjective theology.
Unlike other American theologians who spent time in Europe, Hodge's experience did not cause any change in his commitment to the principles of the faith he had learned from childhood.
Starting in the 1830s Hodge suffered from an immobilizing pain in his leg, and was forced to conduct his classes from his study from 1833–1836.
He continued to write articles for Biblical Repertory, now renamed the Princeton Review.
During the 1830s he wrote a major commentary on Romans and a history of the Presbyterian church in America.
He supported the Old School in the Old School–New School Controversy, which resulted in a split in 1837.
In 1840 he became Professor of Didactic Theology, retaining, however, the department of New Testament exegesis, the duties of which he continued to discharge until his death.
He was moderator of the New Jersey General Assembly in 1846.
Hodge's wife died in 1849, shortly followed by Samuel Miller and Archibald Alexander, leaving him the senior professor of the seminary.
He was recognized as the leading proponent of the Princeton theology.
On his death in 1878 he was recognized by both friends and opponents as one of the greatest polemicists of his time.
Of his children who survived him, three were ministers; and two of these succeeded him in the faculty of Princeton Theological Seminary, C. W. Hodge, in the department of exegetical theology, and A.
A. Hodge, in that of dogmatics.
A grandson, C. W. Hodge, Jr., also taught for many years at Princeton Seminary.
Hodge wrote many biblical and theological works.
He began writing early in his theological career and continued publishing until his death.
In 1835 he published his Commentary on the Epistle to the Romans, which is considered to be his greatest exegetical work.
Other works followed at intervals of longer or shorter duration - Constitutional History of the Presbyterian Church in the United States (1840); Way of Life (1841, republished in England, translated into other languages, and circulated to the extent of 35,000 copies in America); Commentary on Ephesians (1856); on First Corinthians (1857); on Second Corinthians (1859).
His magnum opus is the Systematic Theology (1871–1873), of 3 volumes and extending to 2,260 pages.
His last book, What is Darwinism?
In addition to all this it must be remembered that he contributed upward of 130 articles to the Princeton Review, many of which, besides exerting a powerful influence at the time of their publication, have since been gathered into volumes, and as Selection of Essays and Reviews from the Princeton Review (1857) and Discussions in Church Polity (ed.
W. Durant, 1878) have taken a permanent place in theological literature.
This record of Hodge's literary life is suggestive of the great influence that he exerted.
But properly to estimate that influence, it must be remembered that 3,000 ministers of the Gospel passed under his instruction, and that to him was accorded the rare privilege, during the course of a long life, of achieving distinction as a teacher, exegete, preacher, controversialist, ecclesiastic, and systematic theologian.
As a teacher he had few equals; and if he did not display popular gifts in the pulpit, he revealed homiletical powers of a high order in the "conferences" on Sabbath afternoons, where he spoke with his accustomed clearness and logical precision, but with great spontaneity and amazing tenderness and unction.
Hodge's literary powers were seen at their best in his contributions to the Princeton Theological Review, many of which are acknowledged masterpieces of controversial writing.
They cover a wide range of topics, from apologetic questions that concern common Christianity to questions of ecclesiastical administration, in which only Presbyterians have been supposed to take interest.
But the questions in debate among American theologians during the period covered by Hodge's life belonged, for the most part, to the departments of anthropology and soteriology; and it was upon these, accordingly, that his polemic powers were mainly applied.
All of the books that he authored have remained in print over a century after his death.
Devotion to Christ was the salient characteristic of his experience, and it was the test by which he judged the experience of others.
Hence, though a Presbyterian and a Calvinist, his sympathies went far beyond the boundaries of sect.
He refused to entertain the narrow views of church polity which some of his brethren advocated.
He repudiated the unhistorical position of those who denied the validity of Roman Catholic baptism.
He was conservative by nature, and his life was spent in defending the Reformed theology as set forth in the Westminster Confession of Faith and Larger and Westminster Shorter Catechisms.
He was fond of saying that Princeton had never originated a new idea; but this meant no more than that Princeton was the advocate of historical Calvinism in opposition to the modified and provincial Calvinism of a later day.
And it is true that Hodge must be classed among the great defenders of the faith, rather than among the great constructive minds of the Church.
He had no ambition to be epoch-making by marking the era of a new departure.
But he earned a higher title to fame in that he was the champion of his Church's faith during a long and active life, her trusted leader in time of trial, and for more than half a century the most conspicuous teacher of her ministry.
Hodges' understanding of the Christian faith and of historical Protestantism is given in his Systematic Theology.
As an archconservative and a believer in both the inerrancy and the literal interpretation of the Bible, Hodge supported the institution of slavery in its most abstract sense, as having support from certain passages in the Bible.
He held slaves himself, but he condemned their mistreatment, and made a distinction between slavery in the abstract and what he saw as the unjust Southern Slave Laws that deprived slaves of their right to educational instruction, to marital and parental rights, and that "subject them to the insults and oppression of the whites."
It was his opinion that the humanitarian reform of these laws would become the necessary prelude to the eventual end of slavery in the United States.
The Presbyterian General Assembly of 1818 had affirmed a similar position, that slavery within the United States, while not necessarily sinful, was a regrettable institution that ought to eventually be changed.
Like the church, Hodge himself had sympathies with both the abolitionists in the North and the pro-slavery advocates in the South, and he used his considerable influence in an attempt to restore order and find common ground between the two factions, with the eventual hope of abolishing slavery altogether.
Hodge's support of slavery was not an inevitable result of his belief in the inerrancy and the literal interpretation of the Bible.
Other 19th century Christian contemporaries of Hodge, who also believed in the inerrancy and infallibility of the Bible, denounced the institution of slavery.
John Williamson Nevin, a conservative, evangelical Reformed scholar and seminary professor, denounced slavery as 'a vast moral evil.'
Hodge and Nevin also famously clashed over polar-opposite views of the Lord's Supper.
Hodge was a leader of the Old School faction of Presbyterians during the division of the Presbyterian Church (USA) in 1837.
The issues involved conflicts over doctrine, religious practice, and slavery.
Although prior to 1861 the Old School refrained from denouncing slavery, the issue was a matter of debate between Northern and Southern components of the denomination.
Hodge could tolerate slavery but he could never tolerate treason of the sort he saw trying to break up the United States in 1861.
Hodge was a strong nationalist and led the fight among Presbyterians to support the Union.
In the January 1861 Princeton Review, Hodge laid out his case against secession, in the end calling it unconstitutional.
James Henley Thornwell responded in the January 1861 Southern Presbyterian Journal, holding that the election of 1860 had installed a new government, one which the South did not agree with, thus making secession lawful.
Despite being a staunch Unionist politically, Hodge voted against the support for the "Spring Resolutions" of the 1861 General Assembly of the Old School Presbyterian Church, thinking it was not the business of the church to involve itself in political matters; because of the resolutions, the denomination then split North and South.
When the General Assembly convened in Philadelphia in May 1861, one month after the Civil War began, the resolution stipulated pledging support for the federal government over objections based on concerns about the scope of church jurisdiction and disagreements about its interpretation of the Constitution.
In December 1861, the Southern Old School Presbyterian churches severed ties with the denomination.
In 1874, Hodge published What is Darwinism?, , claiming that Darwinism, was, in essence, atheism.
To Hodge, Darwinism was contrary to the notion of design and was therefore clearly atheistic.
Both in the Review and in What is Darwinism?, , (1874) Hodge attacked Darwinism.
His views determined the position of the Seminary until his death in 1878.
While he didn't consider all evolutionary ideas to be in conflict with his religion, he was concerned with its teaching in colleges.
Meanwhile at the college across town (a totally separate institution) President John Maclean also rejected Darwin's theory of evolution.
However in 1868, upon Maclean's retirement, James McCosh, a philosopher, became president.
McCosh believed that much of Darwinism could and would be proved sound, and so he strove to prepare Christians for this event.
Instead of conflict between science and religion, McCosh sought reconciliation.
Insisting on the principle of design in nature, McCosh interpreted the Darwinian discoveries as more evidence of the prearrangement, skill, and purpose in the universe.
He thus argued that Darwinism was not atheistic nor in irreconcilable hostility to the Bible.
The Presbyterians in America thus could choose between two schools of thought on evolution, both based in Princeton.
The Seminary held to Hodge's position until his supporters were ousted in 1929, and the college (Princeton University) became a world class center of the new science of evolutionary biology.
The debate between Hodge and McCosh exemplified an emerging conflict between science and religion over the question of Darwin's evolution theory.
However, the two men showed greater similarities regarding matters of science and religion than popularly appreciated.
Both supported the increasing role of scientific inquiry in natural history and resisted its intrusion into philosophy and religion.
This article includes content derived from the public domain Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge, 1914.
Dogmatic theology is that part of theology dealing with the theoretical truths of faith concerning God and God's works, especially the official theology recognized by an organized Church body, such as the Roman Catholic Church, Dutch Reformed Church, etc.
At times, apologetics or fundamental theology is called "general dogmatic theology", dogmatic theology proper being distinguished from it as "special dogmatic theology".
In present-day use, however, apologetics is no longer treated as part of dogmatic theology but has attained the rank of an independent science, being generally regarded as the introduction to and foundation of dogmatic theology.
The term "dogmatic theology" became more widely used following the Protestant Reformation and was used to designate the articles of faith that the Church had officially formulated.
An example of dogmatic theology is the doctrinal statements or dogmas that were formulated by the early church councils who sought to resolve theological problems and to take a stance against a heretical teaching.
These creeds or dogmas that came out of the church councils were considered to be authoritative and binding on all Christians because the church officially affirmed them.
One of the purposes of dogmatic theology to formulate and communicate doctrine that is considered essential to Christianity and which if denied would constitute heresy.
Dogmatic theology may be defined as the scientific exposition of the entire theoretical doctrine concerning God and God's external activity, based on the dogmas of the Church.
Dogmatic theology emphasizes the importance of propositional truth over experiential, sensory perceptions.
The Roman Catholic Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith is charged with ensuring fidelity to Catholic teaching regarding theology and doctrine among all members of the Church – especially in disputes or unsolved issues involving theology and the faith, and in dealing with individuals (especially clergy, religious, and catechists, where orthodoxy is a special concern, but also laypeople) whose teachings or statements have been judged erroneous at the local level.
In 1989, the Congregation's International Theological Commission prepared a document on doctrinal theology called "The Interpretation of Dogma".
This happened when Pope Benedict XVI was Prefect of the Congregation and thus President of the Commission.
The term "dogmatic theology" is thought to have first appeared in 1659 in the title of a book by L. Reinhard.
A. M. Fairbairn holds that it was the fame of Petau which gave currency to the new coinage "dogmatic theology"; and though the same or related phrases had been used repeatedly by writers of less influence since Reinhard and Andreas Essenius, F. Buddeus (Institutiones theol.
dogmat., 1723; Compendium, 1728) is held to have given the expression its supremacy.
Noel Alexandre, the Gallican theologian, possibly introduced it in the Roman Catholic Church (1693; Theologia dogmatica et moralis).
Both Roman Catholic and Protestant authorities agree that the expression was connected with the new habit of distinguishing dogmatics from Christian ethics or moral theology, though Albert Schweizer denies this of Reinhard.
In another direction dogmas and dogmatic theology were also contrasted with truths of reason and natural theology.
India, being a culturally diverse and fervent society, celebrates various holidays and festivals.
There are three national holidays in India: Independence Day on 15 August, Mahatma Gandhi's birthday on 2 October, and Republic Day on 26 January.
States and regions have local festivals depending on prevalent religious and linguistic demographics.
Popular religious festivals include the Sikh festivals like Guru Nanak Jayanti, Hindu festivals of Makar Sankranti, Maha Shivaratri, Diwali, Ganesh Chaturthi, Holi, Dussehra, Islamic festivals of Eid ul-Fitr, Eid al-Adha, Mawlid an-Nabī and Christian festivals of Christmas and days of observances such as Good Friday are observed throughout the country.
The Day of Ashura, (10th day of Muharram), which in the Indian holiday calendar is referred to as Muharram, is observed by many sects of Islam.
In addition, the Sikh festivals such as Guru Nanak Gurpurab, the Christian festivals such as Christmas, Good Friday and Jain festivals like Mahavir Jayanti, Paryushan are celebrated in certain areas where these religions have a significant following.The annual holidays are widely observed by state and local governments; however, they may alter the dates of observance or add or subtract holidays according to local custom.
National holidays are observed in all states and union territories.
India has three national days.
Hindus celebrate a number of festivals all through the year.
Hindu festivals have one or more of religious, mythological and seasonal significance.
The observance of the festival, the symbolisms used and attached, and the style and intensity of celebration varies from region to region within the country.
A list of the more popular festivals is given below:- A number of Sikh holidays are Gurpurbs, anniversaries of a guru's birth or death; marked by the holding of a festival.
In addition to the official holidays, many religious, ethnic, and other traditional holidays populate the calendar, as well as observances proclaimed by officials and lighter celebrations.
These are rarely observed by Central government and businesses While having so many Government Holidays kept in line with the idea of peaceful co-existence of all religions, there have been demands from various public bodies that the system of a multitude of religious holidays is hampering economic activities to a great extent.
The past two Central Govt.
Pay Commissions [1] have recommended the abolition of all Central Govt.
Holidays on religious festivals, and instead, substitute with three national Holidays, i.e., Independence Day (15 August), Republic Day (26 January) and Gandhi Jayanti (2 October).
It was also recommended to increase the amount of existing Restricted Holidays (Optional Holidays) depending on one's religious persuasion from existing two to eight.
The rationale being, 8 holidays can more than cater for the festivals of any particular religion.
So there is no point in having more than these many number of holidays, since religion does not warrant a Hindu to celebrate Eid or a Muslim to celebrate Diwali.
With the proposed system, however, it was left to the individual to choose which 8 Holidays to celebrate, irrespective of his religious belief.
However, this recommendation has not been accepted by the Govt.
of India, fearing a loss of popularity , and thus Indian Govt.
continues with an unusually large number of religious holidays as compared to most other countries.
Central & State governments in India annually issue list of holidays to be observed in respective government offices during the respective year.
List is divided into two parts: Apart from this local administration at district level also issue list of additional holidays known as local holidays, which are observed at district level.
The Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions (Department of Personnel and Training) on behalf of Government of India issues a list of holidays to be observed in central government offices during the respective year.
The list is divided in two parts i.e.
Annexure I & Annexure II.
Annexure I also known as Gazetted holidays, consists of list of holidays which are mandatory once decided.
This list consists of two parts: In addition to the above 14 Compulsory holidays mentioned in para 2, three holidays are decided from the list indicated below by the Central Government Employees Welfare Coordination Committee in the State Capitals (if necessary, in consultation with Coordination Committees at other places in the State).
The final list is applicable uniformly to all Central Government offices within the concerned State shall.
they are notified after seeking prior approval of this Ministry and no change can be carried out thereafter.
No change is permissible in regard to festivals and dates.
Annexure II also known as Restricted holidays, consists of list of holidays which are optional.
Each employee is allowed to avail any two holidays to be chosen out of the list of Restricted Holidays.
The Coordination Committees at the State Capitals draw up separate list of Restricted Holidays keeping in view the occasions of local importance but the 9 occasions left over, after choosing the 3 variable holidays in para 3.1, are to be included in the list of restricted holidays.
Central Government Organisations which include industrial, commercial and trading establishments observe up to 16 holidays in a year including three national holidays viz.
Republic Day, Independence Day and Mahatma Gandhi's birthday, as compulsory holidays.
The remaining holidays / occasions may be determined by such establishments / organisations themselves, subject to para 3.2.
Union Territory Administrations decide the list of holidays in terms of Ministry of Home Affairs letter No.14046/27 /83- GP-I dated 15 February 1984 by which they observe a total of 16 holidays including the three National Holidays viz.
Republic Day, Independence Day & Mahatma Gandhi's birthday.
In respect of Indian Missions abroad, the number of holidays are notified in accordance with the instructions contained in Department of Personnel and Training's O.M.
No.12/5/2002-JCA dated 17 December 2002.
In other words, they have the option to select 11(Eleven) holidays of their own only after including in the list, three National Holidays and Diwali, Milad-Un-Nabi or Id-E-Milad, Mahavir Jayanti, Idu'l Fitr, Dussehra (Vijaya Dashami), Guru Nanak's Birthday, Christmas Day included in the list of compulsory holidays and falling on days of weekly off.
In respect of Banks, the holidays are restricted to 15 days in a year in terms of the instructions issued by the Department of Economic Affairs (BankingDivision).
Gerard Loughlin BA MA (Wales) PhD (Cambridge) is Professor of Theology and Religion at the University of Durham, England.
He is the author of Telling God's Story: Bible Church and Narrative Theology (Cambridge University Press 1996) and Alien Sex: The Body and Desire in Cinema and Theology (Blackwell 2004).
Loughin is also the coeditor (with Jon Davies) of Sex These Days: Essays on Theology, Sexuality and Society (Continuum 1997) and editor of Queer Theology: Rethinking the Western Body (Blackwell 2007).
He serves on the editorial board of Literature and Theology (Oxford University Press) and is co-editor (with Elizabeth Stuart and Kent Brintnall) of Theology and Sexuality (Equinox).
Mary Cecilia Grey is Emeritus Professor of Theology at the University of Wales, Lampeter, a fellow at Sarum College, Salisbury, and until 2013 was visiting Professor at St Mary's University, Twickenham.
Grey completed an MA (Oxbridge and Louvain, a Bachelor of Sacred Theology| and a Doctor of Philosophy|PhD degree from the Catholic University of Louvain, Belgium.
Her research has focused primarily on Feminist Liberation Theology and Spiritualities, but has also encompassed Ecofeminist theology, Ecological theology and Spirituality, Indian Liberation theology, Christian–Jewish- Palestinian reconciliation, Systematic theology from a Feminist perspective and the relationship between Social Justice and theology.
Her current work focuses on reconciliation- especially between Israel and Palestine- and she is Chair of Living Stones of the holy Land Trust.
Isaac Klein (September 5, 1905 – 1979) was a prominent rabbi and halakhic authority within Conservative Judaism.
Klein was born in the small village of Palanka in what was then Hungary and emigrated with his family to the United States in 1921.
He earned a BA from City College in New York in 1931.
Although nearing ordination at the Yeshiva University's Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, he transferred to the Jewish Theological Seminary of America (JTSA), where he was ordained in 1934 and received the advanced Jewish legal degree of Hattarat Hora’ah under the great talmudic scholar Rabbi Professor Louis Ginzberg.
He was one of only three people, along with Boaz Cohen and Louis Finkelstein, to ever to receive this degree from JTSA.
Klein subsequently earned a PhD from Harvard under the pioneering academic of Judaic studies Harry Wolfson.
He married the former Henriette Levine in 1932 and had three daughters, Hannah, Miriam, and Rivke.
Devoted to his family, he dedicated his major work, A Guide to Jewish Religious Practice to his children, sons-in-law and 13 grandchildren listing each by name.
Klein served as rabbi at Kadimoh Congregation in Springfield, Massachusetts from 1934–1953; Temple Emanu-El, Buffalo, New York, 1953–1968; Temple Shaarey Zedek, Buffalo, (which was created from the merger of Emanu-El with Temple Beth David in 1968), 1968-1972.
A beloved Rabbi, he influenced generations of congregants and visiting students and, together with his wife who was an educator, founded Jewish day schools in both Springfield and Buffalo.
Despite the difficulties facing a congregational Rabbi raising a family, Klein volunteered for the U.S. Army during World War II as a chaplain, motivated by a cause he saw as clearly right with important implications for the Jewish People.
He served over 4 years, rising to the rank of Major and was an advisor to the high commissioner of the Occupation government.
He also served on special assignments for Jewish soldiers in the U.S. Army in the 1950s, receiving the simulated rank of Brigadier General for these missions.
His experiences in the war are described in his book The Anguish and the Ecstasy of a Jewish Chaplain.
Klein was a leader of the right-wing of the Conservative movement.
He was president of the Rabbinical Assembly, 1958–1960, and a member of its Committee on Jewish Law and Standards, 1948-1979.
He was the author of several books, notably, A Guide to Jewish Religious Practice.
One of the outstanding halakhists of the movement, he served as a leading member of the Committee on Jewish Law and Standards from 1948 until his death in 1979.
As a leading authority on halakha he authored many important teshuvot (responsa), many of which were published in his influential "Responsa and Halakhic Studies".
From the 1950s to 1970s, he wrote a comprehensive guide to Jewish law that was used to teach halakha at the JTSA.
In 1979 he assembled this into A Guide to Jewish Religious Practice, which is used widely by laypeople and rabbis within Conservative Judaism.
The philosophy upon which A Guide to Jewish Religious Practice is written is stated in the foreword: "The premise on which Torah is based is that all aspects of life - leisure no less than business, worship or rites of passage (birth, bar mitzvah, marriage, divorce, death) - are part of the covenant and mandate under which every Jew is to serve God in everything he does.
In the eyes of Torah there is, strictly speaking, no such thing as the purely private domain, for even in solitude - be it the privacy of the bath or the unconsciousness of sleep - one has the capacity and the duty to serve God."
This message, of life seen in consonance with the dictates of Judaism, permeates many pages of the book.
Rabbi Louis Finkelstein, scholar of the JTSA, wrote: "There are those who would think that we have but two alternatives, to reject or to accept the law, but in either case to treat it as a dead letter.
Both of these alternatives are repugnant to the whole tradition of Judaism.
Jewish law must be preserved but it is subject to interpretation by those who have mastered it, and the interpretation placed upon it by duly authorized masters in every generation must be accepted with as much reverence as those which were given in previous generations."
This understanding of traditional preservation of the law through its continuous interpretation lies at the heart of Klein's extensive study of Jewish law.
Klein's papers are located at the University Archives, State University of New York at Buffalo (see finding aid).
The archives include fifteen reels of microfilm.
The collection consists of extensive writings by Klein on traditional Jewish practice and law.
This includes manuscript material for his books Guide to Jewish Religious Practice (1979), The Ten Commandments in a Changing World (1963), The Anguish and the Ecstasy of a Jewish Chaplain (1974), and his translation of The Code of Maimonides (Mishneh Torah): Book 7, The Book of Agriculture (1979).
The collection also contains speeches, sermons, articles, and remarks from the Conservative Jewish viewpoint on subjects such as Jewish medical ethics, dietary laws, adoption, and marriage and divorce.
Meeting minutes, annual reports, bulletins, and sermons relating to Klein's rabbinical vocations in Springfield, Massachusetts and Buffalo, New York are also included.
The papers contain photographs, wartime letters, and military records of Klein documenting his service in World War II as a director of Jewish religious affairs in Germany.
The Louisiana Science Education Act, Act 473 (SB733) of 2008 is a controversial law passed by the Louisiana Legislature on June 11, 2008 and signed into law by Governor Bobby Jindal on June 25.
The act allows public school teachers to use supplemental materials in the science classroom which are critical of theories such as the theory of evolution and global warming.
Louisiana was the first state to have passed a law of this type.
Proponents of the law state that it is meant to promote critical thinking and improve education.
State Senator Ben Nevers said the law is intended to allow educators to create an environment that "(promotes) critical thinking skills, logical analysis, and open and objective discussions of scientific theories such as evolution, the origins of life, global warming, and human cloning."
Various Humanist scientific societies have opposed the bill, while other scientists have supported it.
Alan Leshner, the executive publisher of Science, sent a letter to the Speaker of the House of Louisiana condemning the bill as the "latest effort to insert religious, unscientific views into science classrooms," writing elsewhere that the bill would "unleash an assault against scientific integrity, leaving students confused about science and unprepared to excel in a modern workforce."
In 2010, Zack Kopplin, then a high school student, launched an ongoing campaign sponsored by Louisiana State Senator Karen Carter Peterson to repeal the law.
The campaign has been endorsed by 78 Nobel laureates, the New Orleans City Council, and more than a dozen scientific and educational associations.
(Bills to repeal the LSEA failed to advance past the Senate Education committee five years in a row from 2011 through 2015.)
Senator Nevers originally pre-filed the bill as the Louisiana Education Freedom Act (SB 561), at the behest of the Louisiana Family Forum.
“They (the Louisiana Family Forum) believe that scientific data related to creationism should be discussed when dealing with Darwin's theory.
This would allow the discussion of scientific facts," Nevers said.
The Louisiana Science Education Act, SB 733, introduced April 17, 2008, is a renumbered and renamed version of SB 561, which was introduced earlier by Senator Nevers.
The Louisiana Science Education Act is an "academic freedom law" based on the Discovery Institute's academic freedom model statute The LSEA allows teachers in public schools to use supplemental materials in the science classroom that are critical of established scientific theories "including, but not limited to, evolution, the origins of life, global warming and human cloning."
Senator Nevers, sponsor of the bill, states that he introduced the bill at the behest of the Louisiana Family Forum to allow creationism to be taught in public schools.
Gene Mills, president of the Louisiana Family Forum, states that the bill is necessary to allow teachers to "critically present" evidence and "quit choosing sides when it comes to teaching students this controversial subject matter."
Critics of the bill suggest that it is intended as an end-run around the federal ban on the teaching of creationism in public schools, and say that the sole purpose of the law is to provide legal cover to educators who want to introduce things other than science to the teaching of evolution in contravention of court rulings in cases such as Edwards v. Aguillard (1987) and Kitzmiller et al.
v. Dover Area School District (2005), something opposed by the scientific community.
On June 3, 2008, The American Institute of Biological Sciences sent a letter to House Speaker Jim Tucker opposing SB 733.
On June 20, 2008, AIBS and seven other societies sent a letter to Governor Bobby Jindal requesting that he veto SB733.
The requesting societies included the American Institute of Biological Sciences, the American Ornithologists Union, the American Society of Mammalogists, the Botanical Society of America, the Natural Science Collections Alliance, the Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology, the Society of Systematic Biologists, and the Society for the Study of Evolution.
Senator Ben Nevers, Chairman of the Louisiana Senate Education Committee, a Bogalusa Democrat, filed the "Louisiana Academic Freedom Act," (SB 561) on March 21, 2008.
The bill was heard by the Senate Education committee on April 17.
When introducing his legislation to the education committee, Senator Nevers substituted the original bill with SB733, the "Louisiana Science Education Act" or LSEA.
After hearing two proponents in addition to Senator Nevers and approximately twenty opponents, the Education committee voted in favor of the legislation.
On April 22, the Education committee presented the substitute bill to the Senate.
The bill was passed by the Senate on April 28 by a unanimous vote of 35 to 0.
The Louisiana House referred LSEA to the Committee on Education on April 30.
The House Committee on Education reported the bill favorably on May 21 by a unanimous vote of 14 to 0.
The full House passed the legislation by a vote of 94 to 3 on June 11, 2008.
On June 16 the Senate unanimously accepted the House's amendments.
Governor Bobby Jindal signed the legislation into law on June 25 making the LSEA Act 473 of 2008.
Bills that would have repealed the LSEA were introduced by Senator Karen Carter Peterson as SB70 in 2011, SB374 in 2012, SB26 in 2013 and SB175 in 2014.
SB70 failed to pass on a 1-5 vote by the Senate Education committee after an hour-long hearing.
The bill was then deferred by the committee ending consideration on the legislation for the year.
SB374 was rejected by the Senate Education committee in a 2-1 vote with four abstentions.
The third attempt to repeal the measure met again with failure when the Senate Education Committee voted 3-2 to defer the bill on May 1, 2013.
The fourth attempt was rejected in a 3-1 vote on April 24, 2014.
The fifth attempt was rejected in a 4-3 vote on April 22, 2015.
The scientific community in the United States has called the Louisiana Science Education Act an "anti-science" law with the purpose of allowing creationism into public school science classrooms.
The Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology had planned to host a conference in New Orleans in 2011, but decided to change the location of the conference "in large part" because of the LSEA, stating that it was their "firm opinion ... that this law undermines the integrity of science and science education in Louisiana."
They also announced that they would not consider hosting further conferences in New Orleans.
The New Orleans Convention and Visitors Bureau estimated that losing the conference caused an economic loss to Louisiana of at least $2.7 million.
SICB lifted their boycott in early 2013 after the New Orleans City Council and Orleans Parish School Board both rejected the teaching of creationism in science classes.
Prominent critic of the Louisiana Science Education Act Zack Kopplin has stated that the law “leaves our students at a disadvantage when competing for jobs in the global economy.
To illustrate this, he often humorously refers to the fact that when you search creationism on Monster.com or CareerBuilder you get “zero jobs,” while when you search biology, you find over 1000.
Dr. Barbara Forrest, professor of philosophy at Southeastern Louisiana University in Hammond, a prominent critic of the Discovery Institute and the intelligent design movement, has explained that she thinks the law itself passed because, <blockquote>"In Louisiana, we had no organizational framework to respond to [the Louisiana Science Education Act].
One of the ways that Florida, for example, has kept [creationism] out is they have a very active, well organized Florida Citizens for Science.
At the time we didn’t have that.
I and a couple of people, very, very quickly, had to get something together.
[Although] there weren’t very many of us... we did put up some opposition, but Louisiana Family Forum had been planning such a move probably since their founding in 1998.
"< Zack Kopplin began an effort to repeal the LSEA while he was a Senior in high school in 2010.
His repeal bill was sponsored by Senator Karen Carter Peterson.
Critics of the Louisiana Science Education Act call the law a creationism law, because it singles out specific scientific theories, which happen to be politically controversial, for teachers to “critique and review” using “supplemental materials.” The theories in question include “evolution, the origins of life, global warming, and cloning.” Jerry Coyne, a prominent biologist and President of the Society for the Study of Evolution sarcastically illustrated what he perceived as problematic about the law by saying, <blockquote>“Yep, we don’t need more critical thinking in areas like physics, chemistry, or medicine—just human cloning, evolution, and global warming.”< Prominent critic of the law, Zack Kopplin explained: <blockquote>“You don't need a law to teach critical thinking.
You need a law to teach creationism.”< Another prominent critic, Dr. Barbara Forrest, is also wary of the law because the Board of Elementary and Secondary Education's initial draft policy to implement the Louisiana Science Education Act was changed under pressure from a local conservative Christian group, the Louisiana Family Forum.
The initial draft would have explicitly prohibited teaching religion under the guise of 'critical thinking' and using creationist materials in public school science classrooms.
<blockquote>“The initial version of the policy contained two crucial statements that would have prohibited school districts from doing what the legislative sponsors and creationist authors of the LA Science Education Act designed the law to allow them to do: (1) “Religious beliefs shall not be advanced under the guise of encouraging critical thinking”; and (2) “Materials that teach creationism or intelligent design or that advance the religious belief that a supernatural being created humankind shall be prohibited for use in science classes.”< <blockquote>[President of the Louisiana Family Forum, Rev.
Gene Mills] referred to these statements as expressing “religious hostility” and “a cheap shot.” In doing so, he revealed his true intent concerning both the LSEA and the BESE policy: to promote and protect the religious agenda of the LA Family Forum and its Discovery Institute accomplices.
If, as Mills keeps insisting, the LSEA were only intended to promote good science education and not to promote creationism, there would be no reason for him to object to the initial policy’s prohibition against teaching “creationism or intelligent design or that advance the religious belief that a supernatural being created humankind.”< <blockquote>In the revised policy introduced at the S/SPS Committee meeting on January 13, 2009, the first statement had been deleted prior to the meeting.
To the second statement, another had been added: “Evaluations of supplementary materials shall be made without regard to the religious or non-religious beliefs and affiliations of the authors of supplementary materials.” This new sentence was clearly added to prohibit any supplemental material from being challenged based on its having been authored by creationists.”< The Americans United for Separation of Church and State is also worried about the process for parents to challenge supplemental materials brought into the classroom, because “the proposed procedure for reviewing challenged supplemental materials... appears designed to provide a forum for promoting creationism.
Barbara Forrest is the current Secretary for Americans United.
Also, supporters of the law have openly admitted that its purpose is to bring creationism into public school science classrooms.
In July 2010, the Livingston Parish school board discussed using this law to teach creationism in public school science class.
The National Center for Science Education reported, <blockquote>The director of curriculum for [Livingston Parish] reportedly told the board that, under the Louisiana Science Education Act, schools are allowed to present "critical thinking and creationism" in science classes.
The response from the board was enthusiastic, with David Tate asking, "Why can't we get someone with religious beliefs to teach creationism?"
and Clint Mitchell adding, "Teachers should have the freedom to look at creationism and find a way to get it into the classroom.
"< Senator Ben Nevers, the sponsor of the Louisiana Science Education Act, has also said that the Louisiana Family Forum suggested the bill because “They believe that scientific data related to creationism should be discussed when dealing with Darwin's theory.” The law was written with a caveat: it says that it should not be construed "to promote any religious doctrine, promote discrimination for or against a particular set of religious beliefs or promote discrimination for or against religion or nonreligion."
Critics like James Gill, who writes for the New Orleans Times Picayune dismiss this clause.
Gill says the line was “written with a nod and a wink, and it just goes to show how much craftier the obscurantists have become.” This wording is a religion disclaimer from the Discovery Institute’s model bill and is in all of the different variants of the bill in every state where it has been introduced.
In early June 2010, a student at Baton Rouge Magnet High School, Zack Kopplin, launched a campaign to repeal the law as his high school senior project.
He started working on a repeal with Barbara Forrest, who was an expert witness at the Kitzmiller v. Dover trial and was responsible for demonstrating intelligent design was simply creationism dressed up to appear scientific.
According to Kopplin, he is organizing Louisiana “students, scientists, clergy, teachers, and business leaders in support of repealing the Louisiana Science Education Act.” They convinced Senator Karen Carter Peterson, a Democrat from New Orleans, to sponsor their repeal bill.
Representative Walt Leger III, who represents part of Senator Peterson’s district, agreed to handle the legislation in the House.
Senator Peterson introduced SB 70 to repeal the Louisiana Science Education Act on April 14, 2011.
The repeal effort gained support nationally and internationally.
It is supported by 78 Nobel laureate scientists, the City of New Orleans, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the largest general science organization in the world with over 10 million members, and many other organizations.
SB 70 was heard in the Senate Education Committee on May 26, 2011.
After a heated debate, where in response to being presented the Nobel laureate letter, Senator Julie Quinn declared she was “tired of seeing little letters behind everyone’s names,” the Senate Education Committee voted 5-1 to defer action on SB 70, in effect killing it.
The sole vote for SB 70 was Senator Yvonne Dorsey.
The bill was introduced and rejected again from 2012 through 2015, see section Repeal attempts.
In 2013 Kopplin said about Bobby Jindal: "I expect this law bothers him as much as it bothers me.
He’s a Brown biology major."
Nine academic freedom bills were proposed in various state legislatures in 2011.
The effort to repeal the Louisiana Science Education Act may have had an effect in dampening the pressure to pass those bills.
Also, the Louisiana Coalition for Science was able to stop two new efforts to put creationism in Louisiana classrooms after the passage of the Louisiana Science Education Act.
First, they convinced the Louisiana Board of Elementary and Secondary Education to adopt new biology books after creationists attempted to have the books thrown out.
Then they also succeeded in killing a Louisiana House bill (HB 580) which was meant to weaken the Board of Elementary and Secondary Education’s oversight of public school biology books and supplementary materials.
In 2011, Louisiana College biology professor Wade Warren gave testimony in favor of the LSEA and opposed the repeal, along with challenging the ideological motives of many of the scientists who have opposed the LSEA.
He also distributed to the Committee a letter from 15 Ph.D. scientists supporting academic freedom.
Advocates of the bill argue that it does not concern Creationism.
The LSEA allows teachers to supplement additional information into the curricula that is not in the textbook.
In fact, the bill does not even mention Creationism, and Section D states: "This section shall not be construed to promote any religious doctrine, promote discrimination for or against a particular set of religious beliefs, or promote discrimination for or against religion or nonreligion."
Furthermore, advocates of the bill argue it is necessary for three reasons.
First, the supplementation provided for by the LSEA is needed to keep the science textbooks updated, because Biology textbooks are often already falling behind modern research by the time they are written, edited, and published.
Second, most science textbooks have several, if not dozens, of known errors that can be solved with supplementation.
Third, many science books are faulty of focusing on only one viewpoint when discussing controversial issues, and further do not accurately critique their proposed theory.
The LSEA aids both in supplying the necessary critiques of the scientific theories, and also in providing the other viewpoints that are disregarded.
Lieven Boeve [‘li:vən ‘bu:və] (born Veurne, April 10, 1966) is a Belgian Catholic theologian, and is full professor of Systematic Theology at the Faculty of Theology and Religious Studies of the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, where he currently also serves as Dean of the Faculty.
Since 2012 he is also the chair of the Centre for Academic Teacher’s Training, KU Leuven.
On 1 August 2014 he became the Director General of the Flemish Secretary for Catholic Education (VSKO).
In 1995 Boeve obtained his doctoral degree in Theology with a dissertation on the reception of postmodernity in theology.
In 1997 he became part-time instructor at the KU Leuven, in 1999 he became full-time instructor.
Between 1998 and 2003 he also lectured at the Faculty of Theology of the Université catholique de Louvain, Louvain-la-Neuve.
In 2000 he set up a research group Theology in a Postmodern Context, supporting about ten research and doctoral projects on a.o.
the study of the ‘theological method’, Christian faith in the actual culture, and the relation between philosophy and theology.
Meanwhile he is also the coordinator of the GOA project on The Normativity of History, conducting historical-systematic research, and the interdisciplinary research group Anthropos.
From 2005 until 2009 Boeve was the international chair of the European Society of Catholic Theology.
In 2003 Boeve published Interrupting Tradition.
An Essay on Christian Faith in a Postmondern Context, followed by a second more methodological work on the relation between theology and the actual context: God Interrupts History.
Theology in a Time of Upheaval.
In 2013 he edited Tradition and the Normativity of History, together with Terrence Merrigan.
In 2014 he will publish Lyotard and Theology, Beyond the Master Narrative of Love.
In addition Boeve is working on a book on the place of theology in the university, the church and society.
Boeve also published several articles in scientific journals and books.
Lieven Boeve lives in Leuven together with his wife Maryleen Verhavert and their three children.
African Theology is Christian theology or black theology from the perspective of the African cultural context.
Although there are very old Christian traditions on the continent, in the last centuries Christianity in Africa has been determined to a large extent by western forms of Christianity, brought by colonization and mission.
This also means that the theology in Africa was strongly influenced by Western theology.
This changed mid-20th century when African Theology as a theological discipline came into being.
This movement began to protest against negative colonial and missionary interpretations of the religion and culture in Africa.
Realizing that theology is a contextual phenomenon, African Christians began to read the Scriptures using their own cultural lens, which of course resulted in some interpretations that did not always agree with how Western theology interpreted things.
As such, African Theology stands on the shoulders of the early African Independent Churches that broke away from missionary churches in the late 19th century or early 20th century.
African theology is engaged to shape Christianity in an African way by adapting and using African concepts and ideas.
Representatives are scholars such as Idowu and Mbiti, who gave an analysis and interpretation of the African traditional religion and point to its relation to the Christian faith.
Others like Bediako and Pobee have developed an African Christology in terms of the ancestors.
There has been some debate among theologians about the relation of African Theology to Black Theology.
During the 1970s Black Theology developed in South Africa, where the main concern was liberation from apartheid, while African Theology developed in other parts of the continent.
Exponents of African Theology include John Mbiti, Bolaji Idowu, Kwesi Dickson, John Pobee, Kwame Bediako, Lamin Sanneh and Gabriel Setiloane.
There is also a movement of African female theologians, organised in The Circle of Concerned African Women Theologians, inaugurated in 1989 by Mercy Amba Oduyoye (Ghana).
Nowadays this is a movement of hundreds of women theologians from several African countries and with different religious backgrounds.
General coordinator of the Circle have been Oduyoye, Musimbi Kanyoro and Isabel Phiri.
Currently Fulata Moyo (from Malawi) is general coordinator.
In recent time, African evangelicals have also begun to wrestle with the quest of developing a Christian theology which has African context in mind.
In this direction, African evangelicals have taken initiative to develop an African Bible commentary.
Even though this is not a critical commentary, it shows a quest by African evangelicals to engage traditional and contemporary issues in Africa from an evangelical perspective.
Secondly, African evangelicals have also taken initiative in the development of Christian ethics and systematic texts which engage the various issues facing most African Christians.
For example, Samuel Kunhiyop has engaged Christian ethics and systematic theology from an African evangelical perspective.
Similarly, Matthew Michael has engaged systematic theology from the vantage point of African traditions.
In spite of the strides registered by African evangelicals in the quest for an African theology, there is still need for African evangelicals to move pass their initial distrust of the quest for an African theology and to chart new perspectives or redirection of this quest.
The National Muslim Education Council is a British charity founded in 1978 by the Union of Muslim Organisations of UK.
Its first chairman was Safa Khulusi.
Its mission is to "coordinate educational activities with other education charities.
To help in training, education of Muslim adults and children.
To promote religious activities and participate in inter-faith education boards."
The council publishes documents and papers on religious education.
In 1988, it lobbied the government to change the UK's Education Reform Act which required "broadly Christian" acts of worship in schools.
They wanted the wording to be changed to "the worship of the one supreme God".
They also wanted the standing Advisory Committees on Religious Education to have more input from Muslims.
In 2001 Syed Aziz Pasha, secretary of the Council, defended Muslim religious teaching in the light of a report that excessive study of the Quran was leading to poor educational performance by Pakistani children in the UK.
Metaphorical language is the use of a complex system of metaphors to create a sub-language within a common language which provides the basic terms (verbs, prepositions, conjunctions) to express metaphors.
People who over-expose themselves to environments atypical from their usual habits tend to develop understanding of new words and apply new meanings to existing words.
Such sources could include: absorbing a native language spoken in a different dialects or countries, a language other than their own and fictional language from books, music, films and videogames.
People who are classified with Autistic Spectrum Disorder tend to communicate metaphorically rather than with common phrases.
It is currently not known why they can do this, although they also express other abnormalities from level 1 and 2 psychedelic experiences.
Metaphorical language is a common feature of religious discussion, (for example midrash or medieval Roman Catholic "common places" or modern biblespeak) wherein fluency in a religious text is often a prerequisite to participating fully in a conversation.
Not just conceptual metaphors (part of every language) that express belief in analogy between generic concepts, but extremely specific metaphors involving proper names or use of concrete nouns to express generics or processes.
The Tao te ching is considered by many to be almost entirely metaphorical.
For example, change is usually expressed with the “water” character, not the “change” character.
To the outsider, such terms in such combinations will likely seem esoteric or otherwise unintelligible.
Only by learning the underlying patterns of events that are considered important in the religion or ethical or political system, would one be able to comprehend what was said.
The religious text thus acts as a code book.
Since many religious authorities believe in the self-evident truth of their doctrines, a mere exposure to the truth in the book would tend to convert outsiders trying to learn the language.
However, use of such language is not confined to religious groups.
Use of metaphorical language was historically common among secret society devotees, for instance the Chinese Tongs that resisted Imperial rulers, and even some modern troll organizations.
Margaret Barker (born 1944), a Methodist preacher, studied theology at the University of Cambridge, after which she has devoted her life to research in ancient Christianity.
She has developed an approach to biblical studies known as Temple Theology.
She was president of the Society for Old Testament Study in 1998, and in July 2008 she was awarded the degree of Doctor of Divinity by the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Temple Theology is an approach to biblical studies developed by Margaret Barker in her books starting from The Great High Priest (2003) and Temple Theology (2004).
This approach identifies some elements of the theology and worship of the Jewish First Temple that endured beyond Josiah's reform and survived in both early Christian theology and liturgy and in gnosticism.
According to this view Temple Theology has been influential in molding the roots of Christianity as well as, or even more than, Hellenistic or synagogue culture.
According to Barker, the main ideas of Temple Theology are the following: Margaret Barker works from all the available sources (the Hebrew Bible, the Septuagint, the Dead Sea scrolls, the New Testament, the Jewish and Christian Apocrypha and Pseudepigrapha, Gnostic texts, and other early writings and artwork).
According to her, Sola Scriptura - the doctrine that the Bible is the supreme authority in all matters of doctrine and practice - has hindered rather than helped the understanding of Christianity.
The theology of Martin Luther was instrumental in influencing the Protestant Reformation, specifically topics dealing with Justification by Faith, the relationship between the Law and the Gospel (also an instrumental component of Reformed theology), and various other theological ideas.
Although Luther never wrote a "systematic theology" or a "summa" in the style of St. Thomas Aquinas, many of his ideas were systematized in the Lutheran Confessions.
"This one and firm rock, which we call the doctrine of justification," insisted Luther, "is the chief article of the whole Christian doctrine, which comprehends the understanding of all godliness."
"Concordia Theological Monthly</cite> 26 (November 1955) No.
11:801.
[ [1]</ref> Lutherans tend to follow Luther in this matter.
For the Lutheran tradition, the doctrine of salvation by grace alone through faith alone for Christ's sake alone is the material principle upon which all other teachings rest.
Luther came to understand justification as being entirely the work of God.
Against the teaching of his day that the righteous acts of believers are done in cooperation with God, Luther asserted that Christians receive that righteousness entirely from outside themselves; that righteousness not only comes from Christ, it actually is the righteousness of Christ, imputed to us (rather than infused into us) through faith.
"That is why faith alone makes someone just and fulfills the law," said Luther.
"Faith is that which brings the Holy Spirit through the merits of Christ".
Thus faith, for Luther, is a gift from God, and ".
.
.a living, bold trust in God's grace, so certain of God's favor that it would risk death a thousand times trusting in it."
This faith grasps Christ's righteousness and appropriates it for itself in the believer's heart.
Luther's study and research as a Bible professor led him to question the contemporary usage of terms such as penance and righteousness in the Roman Catholic Church.
He became convinced that the church had lost sight of what he saw as several of the central truths of Christianity — the most important being the doctrine of justification by faith alone.
He began to teach that salvation is a gift of God's grace through Christ received by faith alone.The Cambridge Companion to Luther</cite> (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2003), 88-94.< </ref> As a result of his lectures on the Psalms and Paul's letter to the Romans, from 1513–1516, Luther "achieved an exegetical breakthrough, an insight into the all-encompassing grace of God and all-sufficient merit of Christ."
"The Renaissance and Reformation Movements</cite>, Revised Ed.
(St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1987), 332.< </ref> It was particularly in connection with Romans 1:17 "For therein is the righteousness of God is revealed from faith, to faith: as it is written: 'The just shall live by faith.'"
Luther came to one of his most important understandings, that the "righteousness of God" was not God's active, harsh, punishing wrath demanding that a person keep God's law perfectly in order to be saved, but rather Luther came to believe that God's righteousness is something that God gives to a person as a gift, freely, through Christ.
"Luther emerged from his tremendous struggle with a firmer trust in God and love for him.
The doctrine of salvation by God's grace alone, received as a gift through faith and without dependence on human merit, was the measure by which he judged the religious practices and official teachings of the church of his day and found them wanting."
Luther explained justification this way in his <cite>Smalcald Articles</cite>: <blockquote>The first and chief article is this: Jesus Christ, our God and Lord, died for our sins and was raised again for our justification (Romans 3:24-25).
He alone is the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world (John 1:29), and God has laid on Him the iniquity of us all (Isaiah 53:6).
All have sinned and are justified freely, without their own works and merits, by His grace, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, in His blood (Romans 3:23-25).
This is necessary to believe.
This cannot be otherwise acquired or grasped by any work, law, or merit.
Therefore, it is clear and certain that this faith alone justifies us...Nothing of this article can be yielded or surrendered, even though heaven and earth and everything else falls (Mark 13:31).T The Smalcald Articles<cite> in <cite>Concordia: The Lutheran Confessions</cite> (Saint Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 2005), 289, Part two, Article 1.< See also: Theology of the Cross Another essential aspect of his theology was his emphasis on the "proper distinction"What Luther Says: An Anthology</cite> (St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1959), 2:732, no.
2276</ref> between Law and Gospel.
He believed that this principle of interpretation was an essential starting point in the study of the scriptures and that failing to distinguish properly between Law and Gospel was at the root of many fundamental theological errors.Concordia Theological Quarterly</cite> 48 (1984) no.
1:11-12.< According to some interpreters, especially Philipp Jakob Spener, Luther developed the notion of all believers being "part of one body" as a means to claim the priesthood of all believers.
While the notion and meaning is somewhat unclear, this concept was clearly developed in opposition against a prevailing medieval division of Christians into "spiritual" (the hierarchy) and "temporal" Christians (the laity).
In this view all Christians are "priests" in the eyes of God.
This notion is common to all Christian denominations generally labeled as "protestant".
(Latin simul, “simultaneous” + Latin justus, “righteous” + Latin et, “and” + Latin peccator, “sinner”) Roman Catholic theology maintains that baptism washes away original sin.
However, "concupiscence" remains as an inclination to sin, which is not sin unless actualized.
Luther and the Reformers, following Augustine, insisted that what was called "concupiscence" was actually sin.
While not denying the validity of baptism, Luther maintains that the inclination to sin is truly sin.
"Simul justus et peccator" means that a Christian is at the same time both righteous and a sinner.
Human beings are justified by grace alone, but at the same time they will always remain sinners, even after baptism.
The doctrine can be interpreted in two different ways.
From the perspective of God, human beings are at the same time totally sinners and totally righteous in Christ (totus/totus).
However, it would also be possible to argue that human beings are partly sinful and partly righteous (partim/partim).
The doctrine of "simul justus" is not an excuse for lawlessness, or a license for continued sinful conduct; rather, properly understood, it comforts the person who truly wishes to be free from sin and is aware of the inner struggle within him.
Romans 7 is the key biblical passage for understanding this doctrine.
Luther also does not deny that the Christian may ever "improve" in his conduct.
Instead, he wishes to keep Christians from either relying upon or despairing because of their own conduct or attitude.
Martin Luther's doctrine of the two kingdoms (or two reigns) of God teaches that God is the ruler of the whole world and that he rules in two ways, both by the law and by the gospel.
God rules the earthly or kingdom through secular government, by means of law and the sword.
As Creator God would like to promote social justice, and this is done through the political use of the law.
At the same time God rules his spiritual kingdom, in order to promote human righteousness before God.
This is done through the gospel, according to which all humans are justified by God's grace alone.
This distinction has in Lutheran theology often been related to the idea that there is no particular Christian contribution to political and economic ethics.
Human reason is enough to understand what is a right act in political and economic life.
The gospel does not give any contribution to the content of social ethics.
From this perspective Lutheran theology has often supported those in political and economic power.
Finnish scholarship in recent years has presented a distinctive view of Luther.
Tuomo Mannermaa at the University of Helsinki led the "The New Finnish Interpretation of Luther" that presents Luther's views on salvation in terms much closer to the Eastern Orthodox doctrine of theosis rather than established interpretations of German Luther scholarship.
Mannermaa's student Olli-Pekka Vainio has argued that Luther and other Lutherans in the sixteenth century (especially theologians who later wrote the Formula of Concord) continued to define justification as participation in Christ rather than simply forensic imputation.
Vainio concludes that the Lutheran doctrine of justification can deny merit to human actions, "only if the new life given to the sinner is construed as participation in the divine Life in Christ.
.
.
.
The faith that has Christ as its object, and which apprehends Him and His merit, making Him present as the form of faith, is reckoned as righteousness" The Finnish approach argues that it is due to a much later interpretation of Luther that he is popularly known as centering his doctrine of human salvation in the belief that people are saved by the imputation to them of a righteousness not their own, Christ's own ("alien") righteousness.
This is known as the theological doctrine of forensic justification.
Rather, the Finnish School asserts that Luther's doctrine of salvation was similar to that of Eastern Orthodoxy, theosis (divinization).
The Finnish language is deliberately borrowed from the Greek Orthodox tradition, and thus it reveals the intention and context of this theological enterprise: it is an attempt by Lutherans to find common ground with Orthodoxy, an attempt launched amid the East-West détente of the 1970s, but taking greater impetus in a post-1989 world as such dialogue appears much more urgent for churches around the Baltic.
The New Finnish Interpretation has been challenged because it ignores Luther's roots and theological development in Western Christendom, and it characterizes Luther's teaching on Justification as based on Jesus Christ's righteousness which indwells the believer rather than his righteousness as imputed to the believer.
Kolb and Arand (2008) argue that, "These views ignore the radically different metaphysical base of Luther's understanding and that of the Eastern church, and they ignore Luther's understanding of the dynamic, re-creative nature of God's Word."
In the anthology Union with Christ: The New Finnish Interpretation of Luther the topic of Osiandrianism is addressed because the Finnish School is perceived as a repristination of Andreas Osiander's doctrine of salvation through Christ's indwelling the believer with his divine nature.
The Lucknow School of Architecture was an experiment by the resurgent Nawabs of Awadh.
It was an attempt to preserve the Mughal school of architecture by experimenting with different materials and innovating new concepts.
Among the extant architecture there are religious buildings such as Imambaras, mosques and other Islamic shrines, and secular structures like enclosed gardens, baradaris, palace complexes.
The following are distinct features of Lucknow architecture :
Thomas J. Duff was an architect noted for his design of a number of religious buildings for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York during its major expansion at the beginning of the 20th century.
His firm was headquartered at 407 West 14th Street, Manhattan, and in Mount Vernon in Westchester County.
San Giovanni, the Italian form of "Saint John", is a name that may refer to dozens of saints.
It may also refer to several places (most of them in Italy) and religious buildings: Many hundreds, probably even thousands, of churches are also named after the various saints hiding under the simple "Giovanni", among them:
Brierfield is a small town and civil parish in Pendle, Lancashire, England.
It contains seven listed buildings that are recorded in the National Heritage List for England.
All of the listed buildings are designated at Grade&nbsp;II, the lowest of the three grades, which is applied to "buildings of national importance and special interest".
The listed buildings are varied in type, consisting of a house, two religious buildings, a bridge over the Leeds and Liverpool Canal, the Town Hall, a war memorial, and a former cotton mill.
The National Inventory of the Cultural Property of the Maltese Islands (NICPMI) is a heritage register listing the cultural property of Malta.
The inventory includes properties such as archaeological sites, fortifications, religious buildings, monuments, scheduled property and other historical buildings.
The inventory was established on 16 December 2011, according to article 7(5)(a) of the Cultural Heritage Act, 2002: <blockquote> (5) It shall be the function of the Superintendence:<br>
This is a non-exhaustive list of buildings in Melbourne, Australia and surrounding suburbs listed on the Victorian Heritage Register.
This the highest level of protection afforded to a building in the state of Victoria.
A far greater number of buildings and precincts are covered by Heritage Overlays in local government planning schemes, though these may not have the same level of protection.
Charlcutt is a hamlet in the county of Wiltshire, England, northwest of Calne.
It is part of the civil parish of Bremhill.
Charlcutt is home to twenty households spread over an area of one mile along the ridge of the hill.
Unusually, Charlcutt House is situated at the bottom of the hill, beneath the other dwellings.
There are no religious buildings with the nearest chapel a mile away in neighbouring Spirthill (now converted into a home).
The Cangiani Chapel or Cappella Cangiani is a modern Roman Catholic church in Rione Alto, on via Mariano Semmola in the quartiere Arenella of Naples, Italy.
A chapel on the site, owned by the Cangiani family, was known since the 16th century.
Religious buildings were replaced over the century.
In 1969, construction of the present modern church, by architect Alberto Izzo, aimed to create a parish church center, with consecration in 1976.
Inside there is a Crucifix carved by Michelangelo Naccherino and brought here from the ancient church of dell'Incoronata in via Medina.
Barimo massacre is the massacre of 26 Bosniaks in Barimo village in Višegrad Municipality in August 1992 by the Bosnian Serb Army.
The victims were mostly women and children.
The entire village was burnt down and destroyed, including religious buildings.
The oldest victim was Hanka Halilović, born in 1900, and the youngest was Fadila Bajrić, born in 1980.
Between May 10 and May 13, 1931, several convents and other religious buildings were burnt in Spain.
The riots started in Madrid.
On May 10, a group of right-wingers played an album recording of the monarchist Marcha Real by an open window in the Calle de Alcalá while a large crowd were returning from the Buen Retiro Park.
Some members of the crowd were enraged, and protests the following day swept across Spain.
Étienne-Hippolyte Godde (26 December 1781 &ndash; 1869) was a French neoclassic architect.
Born in Breteuil, Oise, </ref> educated at the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts, and Architect of the City of Paris from 1813 to 1830, Godde designed some thirty religious buildings, six public buildings, and numerous other structures.
Among his apprentices was Henri Labrouste.
In poverty later in life, he was buried in the 27th division of Père Lachaise Cemetery.
Joseph (Josef) Samuel Bloch (November 20, 1850, Dukla, Galicia (Poland) - 1923) was an Austrian rabbi and deputy of Polish descent.
Bloch's parents, who were poor, destined him for the rabbinical career, and he devoted himself to the exclusive study of the Talmud.
He frequented the yeshivot, especially that of Rabbi Josef Saul Nathanson at Lemberg, who, in his response, mentions Bloch, when he was only fifteen years old, as one of his most intelligent pupils.
After having finished his studies at the colleges (gymnasia) of Magdeburg and Liegnitz, he went to the University of Munich.
Thence he went to the University of Zurich, where he obtained his degree of doctor of philosophy.
He was appointed rabbi in Rendsburg, Holstein, afterward in Kobylin, Posen (Poznań), and Brüx, Bohemia; and finally he ended his rabbinical career in Floridsdorf, near Vienna.
Antisemitism was endemic in Austria during the late 19th century and was taking political center-stage from the 1870s on.
Taking advantage of this, August Rohling, a Professor of Theology at one of the German universities, published a book, Der Talmudjude (1871), which became a bestseller and was read by hundreds of thousands (one Catholic organization distributed 38,000 copies free of charge).
It rehashed the worst medieval libels concerning alleged hateful and debased Talmudic teachings and Jewish religious practices.
Rohling became famous, continued even more intensified attacks against the Jews, and was eventually rewarded with an appointment to the Catholic theological faculty of Prague University.
During the Tisza-Eszlár trial in 1883, Rohling made a written offer to substantiate under oath the blood ritual of the Jews, namely that their religion obliged them to eat Christian flesh in their rituals.
The leading rabbis of Austria issued only a brief denial of any truth to the claim and tried otherwise to ignore these outrageous falsehoods, hoping that the controversy would fade away.
But Rabbi Dr. Bloch, until then an obscure rabbi of a small and poor suburban congregation believed that a thorough and effective rebuttal had to be made, no matter what the ugliness of the conflict.
He took on the challenge with a series of articles in which he openly accused Rohling of committing wilful perjury; Bloch also denounced Rohling, moreover, as a person utterly ignorant in Talmudic learning, not even able to translate a single page of Talmud.
His articles caused a sensation; three editions of 100,000 copies sold out in a single day.
As a Professor of Theology, Rohling had to respond to this very public challenge or lose all credibility and even his university position.
After several successful attempts to delay the proceedings, when the trial could no longer be postponed Rohling preferred to withdraw completely, thus tacitly acknowledging defeat.
He lost his professorship and became a byword amongst liberals for antisemitic falsifications, even if antisemites still honored him.
In 1884, now a hero of the Jewish community and a political figure to reckon with, Bloch founded a periodical, Oesterreichische Wochenschrift, with the aim of defending the political rights of the Jews, to refute unjust attacks, and to inspire its readers with courage and faith.
Bloch also attended several meetings held by workingmen, and lectured with some success on the Talmudic principles of labor and on the laboring classes in the Old Testament.
After the death of the chief rabbi Simon Schreiber in Kraków in 1884, who had been deputy for Kolomea in parliament, Bloch was elected as his successor.
In 1885, he was re-elected, and after a hard struggle with Dr. Byk in 1891, he was elected for the third time.
As a member of the Chamber of Deputies, he withdrew from his rabbinical post in order to devote himself entirely to his public functions and journalism.
In 1893, instigated by Josef Deckert, a pastor in Vienna, a baptized Jew named Paulus Meyer declared in the Vaterland of May 11 that a number of Russian rabbis from Lentschna had performed a ritual murder in his presence.
In the name of the children of these rabbis, Bloch at once instituted criminal proceedings against Deckert, Meyer, and the publisher of the paper, and on trial, September 15, a conspiracy was unmasked and the three defendants were sentenced to heavy punishment.
When in 1896 Christian socialism had gained a strong footing in parliament, and the government had commenced to recognize the Socialist party, Bloch was sacrificed and everything imaginable was done to prevent his re-election.
Through the combined efforts of the government, the Christian-Socialist party, and the Polish club (party of Polish deputies), all of whom supported the election of the Jewish burgomaster of Kolomea, Bloch failed of re-election.
He then devoted himself to journalism.
Bloch published the following works:
George Andrew Davidson Briggs (born 1950) (known as Andrew Briggs) is a British scientist.
He is Professor of Nanomaterials in the Department of Materials at the University of Oxford.
He is best known for his early work in acoustic microscopy and his current work in materials for quantum technologies.
He was born in Dorchester, Dorset, son of David Briggs, a classics teacher at Bryanston School Dorset, and later headmaster of King’s College School Cambridge, and Mary (née Lormer), whose former maths pupils include Sir Timothy Gowers and Sir Andrew Wiles.
His younger sister is the broadcaster and writer Anne Atkins.
He was educated at the Leys School Cambridge where he held a Major Scholarship and won the Lower and Upper Sixth Form Maths and Physics Prizes, the Natural History and Scientific Society Prize, and the W.L.
Wood Prize.
He studied physics at St. Catherine’s College, Oxford, from 1968-1971 as the Clothworkers’ Scholar.
From 1973-1976 he undertook research for a Ph.D. at the Cavendish Laboratory.
From 1976-1979 he studied Theology at Ridley Hall and Queens’ College, Cambridge, where he won the Chase Prize for Greek.
From 1971-1973 after graduating from his first degree, he taught Physics and Religious Education at Canford School, Dorset.
In 1979 he was a Research Assistant in the Engineering Department at Cambridge University.
In 1980 moved to Oxford as a Research Fellow in the Department of Metallurgy and from 1981 Lecturer in Physics at St Catherine’s College.
In 1984 he was appointed Lecturer in Metallurgy and Science of Materials at the University of Oxford, in 1996 Reader in Materials, and in 1999 Professor of Materials.
In 2002 he was elected to the newly created Chair of Nanomaterials at the University of Oxford.
From 2002-2009 he was Director of the Quantum Information Processing Interdisciplinary Research Collaboration, and EPSRC Professorial Research Fellow.
Since 2010 he has also been responsible for the preparation and evaluation of grant proposals to Templeton World Charity Foundation which serves as a philanthropic catalyst for discoveries relating to the Big Questions of human purpose and ultimate reality.
He has initiated a large number of research projects and related activities around the world, in topics such as spiritual discovery through science, science as a component of theology, the power of information, freedom and free enterprise, and character development.
He has published over 575 books, papers, and articles; the majority in internationally reviewed journals.
His scientific research since taking up the Chair of Nanomaterials in 2002 has concentrated on materials with potential for building quantum computers.
These include molecules in which the quantum states of electron and nuclear spins can be controlled with exquisite precision.
Having established the key necessary phenomena in ensembles of large numbers of spins, since 2013 he has focussed on harnessing quantum properties in devices.
He has also shown how the materials and techniques developed for technologies can be used for investigating the nature of reality in the context of quantum theory.
Peer Review College of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council; Fellowships Committee of The Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851; Engineering Review Panel of the Newton International Fellowships; Board of Management of the Ian Ramsey Centre; Advisory Board of the McDonald Centre; Board of Electors to the Wilde Lectureship in Natural and Comparative Religion; Liveryman of the Worshipful Company of Clothworkers and Freeman of the City of London; Editorial Board of Science & Christian Belief; International Board of Advisors of the John Templeton Foundation.
Andrew Briggs is a practising Christian.
He learnt to fly as a schoolboy and holds a private pilot’s licence with current night and IMC ratings.
He skis and sails, and enjoys opera and Christian theology.
James Thomas McHugh (January 3, 1932 &ndash; December 10, 2000) was an American prelate of the Roman Catholic Church.
He served as Bishop of Camden (1989-98) and Bishop of Rockville Centre (2000).
James McHugh was born in Orange, New Jersey, to James T. and Caroline (née Scavone) McHugh.
</ref> He received his early education at the parochial school of St. Venantius Church, and attended Our Lady of the Valley High School in Orange.
He attended Seton Hall University in South Orange, where he earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in classical languages.
He then began his studies for the priesthood at Immaculate Conception Seminary in Darlington, receiving a Master of Divinity degree.
On May 25, 1957, McHugh was ordained a priest of the Archdiocese of Newark at the Cathedral of the Sacred Heart.
His first assignment was as a curate at Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church in Newark, and he afterwards served at Holy Trinity Church in Fort Lee.
He served as a member of the Archdiocesan Family Life Committee from 1962 to 1965.
In addition to his pastoral duties, McHugh did graduate work in sociology at Fordham University in New York City from 1963 to 1965.
He served as moderator of the Bergen County Catholic Physicians' Guild (1964-65) and of the Bergen County Catholic Nurses' Council (1963-65).
He continued his studies in sociology at the Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. from 1965 to 1967.
In 1965, he joined the staff of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, where he served as director of the Family Life Bureau (1965-75), director of the National Right to Life Committee, (1967), and of the Office of Pro-Life Activities (1972-78).
He was named a papal chamberlain in 1971, and raised to the rank of honorary prelate in 1986.
McHugh was a visiting lecturer in theology at Princeton Theological Seminary (1974), Immaculate Conception Seminary (1976-81), and American College of Louvain in Belgium (1976).
He became director of Diocesan Development Program for Natural Family Planning in 1981.
From 1978 to 1981, he studied moral theology with a concentration in medical ethics at the Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas (Angelicum) in Rome where he earned a doctorate in theology.
He then served as a visiting lecturer at the Pontifical Lateran University in 1982.
He served as special assistant at the World Synod of Bishops on "The Christian Family in the Contemporary World" in 1980, and was appointed to the delegation of the Permanent Observer Mission of the Holy See to the United Nations in 1983.
He was appointed archdiocesan vicar for Parish and Family Life in 1986.
On November 20, 1987, McHugh was appointed auxiliary bishop of Newark and titular bishop of Morosbisdus by Pope John Paul II.
He received his episcopal consecration on January 25, 1988 from Archbishop Theodore Edgar McCarrick, with Archbishop Peter Leo Gerety and Bishop Walter William Curtis serving as co-consecrators, at the Cathedral of the Sacred Heart.
He selected as his episcopal motto: Quid retribuam Domino, meaning, "What shall I return to the Lord" ( ).
Following the retirement of Bishop George Henry Guilfoyle, McHugh was named the fifth Bishop of Camden on May 13, 1989.
His installation took place at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception on June 20 of that year.
During his nine-year tenure, he undertook a major reorganization of the diocese's administrative structure and authorized the relocation of the diocesan headquarters to downtown Camden.
He presided over a diocesan synod in September 1992.
Highly dedicated to the cause of Catholic education, he created a $63 million Catholic Education Endowment Fund for schools and religious education programs, a five-point plan to reinvigorate Catholic high schools, and led a grassroots effort to support school choice legislation in the state legislature.
A strong opponent of abortion, he was a leading member of the National Conference of Bishops' Pro-Life Committee, and was known as the "father of the pro-life movement in America."
He served as a delegate at United Nations-sponsored conferences on the environment (1992 in Rio de Janeiro) and on population and development (1994 in Cairo).
He was appointed coadjutor bishop of the Diocese of Rockville Centre on December 7, 1998, effective February 22, 1999.
He succeeded to the office of diocesan bishop by right of succession on January 4, 2000, and he remained in that office until his death on December 10, 2000.
The Colleges of St Omer, Bruges and Liège were successive expatriate institutions for the Catholic education of English students and were run by the Jesuits.
Initially founded in 1593 by Father Robert Parsons SJ as the College of Saint-Omer in Artois, France (then part of the Spanish Netherlands), the school was forced to relocate twice due to the suppression of the Jesuit order, first to Bruges in 1762 and then Liège in 1773, before migrating a third and final time to Stonyhurst in England where it became Stonyhurst College in 1794.
During the reign of Elizabeth I religious education for Catholics was subject to penal legislation in England.
The English Catholic church had created several colleges in continental Europe to make up for this, at Douai, Rome, and Valladolid, but these primarily addressed the training of priests.
Especially the English College, Douai was associated with the faculty of theology of the University of Douai.
Father Robert Parsons (1546–1610), had been instrumental in founding the English College, Valladolid, but recognized a need for a school for laymen.
Saint-Omer was chosen as a site conveniently close to England (it is 24 miles from Calais), and ruled by Spain as part of Flanders.
It was also near the University of Douai, wherein scholars have been editing and publishing the Douay–Rheims Bible.
The college was originally founded in 1593 as the English Jesuit College at St Omer in Flanders (although an alternative tradition dates the founding to 1592).
In 1599 it gained the direct patronage of King Philip.
After an initial period of growth and prosperity, the unrest caused by the English Civil War caused the number of students to drop as low as 24 in 1645.
As stability returned to the government, the school's effectiveness was also restored.
St. Omer and much of the province of Artois were formally ceded back to France in 1658.
But the Catholic French monarchy was as friendly to the school as the Spanish crown had been before.
As the eighteenth century began, two fires ravaged the town and the university.
But each time it was rebuilt, and even expanded.
Buildings from this second reconstruction in the 1720s remained in use into the twentieth century, serving as a military hospital in World War I.
The college enjoyed its greatest period of prosperity, which extended from around 1720 to 1762.
During a period when formal sworn affiliation with the Church of England was required to attend Oxford and Cambridge, it provided advanced education for several generations of English Catholics.
Since the colleges founded in the American colonies were also church affiliated, Catholic families there sent young men to St. Omer for education.
In 1762, the Jesuits were formally expelled from France, beginning the college's decline and eventual end.
The expulsion split the college.
The Jesuit faculty and many of the students fled to Belgium, moving first to Bruges, and then operating under the protection of the Bishop of Liège from 1773.
King Louis XV continued the college at St. Omer, under the direction of secular clergy.
When the Jesuit order was suppressed everywhere in 1773, this dual system ended, but the college never regained its prominence.
In 1793, the French Revolution and the United Kingdom declaration of war to France ended the Saint Omer college.
The English faculty and students were imprisoned until February 1795.
English penal laws and related discrimination had changed regarding Catholic education, so when released, some of the staff and most of the then about 100 students went to England, in order to avoid war on the European continent.
A former student, Thomas Weld, donated a mansion and grounds at Stonyhurst, in Lancashire.
The modern school, Stonyhurst College continues to this day as a direct lineal descendant of the College of Saint-Omer.
The Lycée Alexandre Ribot now stands on the site of the former college in Saint Omer.
Heythrop College, University of London, the specialist Philosophy and Theology college is also a descendant of the College in Stonyhurst.
Being founded in 1614 by the Society of Jesus in Leuven, Belgium before it amalgamated with the College in Liège.
The site of Stonyhurst College housed the Faculty of Philosophy whereas the Faculty of Theology was located in St.Beunos, Tremeirchion, Wales.
The two faculties merged together in 1926 at Heythrop Hall, Oxfordshire.
The College remained in Oxfordshire until 1969, when it relocated to London to become a constituent College of the University of London at Cavendish Square.
In 1993, the College moved to its present location at Kensington Square, London.
The College coats of arms today celebrates the endowment of Maximilian I, Elector of Bavaria which funded the College in Liège.
Alumni include: three Saints, twelve Beati, and twenty-two martyrs.
Below is a list of those who led the College from its foundation until the move to England.
Marmaduke Stone, the last President of Liège was also the first President of Stonyhurst College and re-established the Society of Jesus in Britain in 1803 at Stonyhurst.
Claude Joseph Goldsmid Montefiore (1858 - 1938) was son of Nathaniel Montefiore, and the great-nephew of Sir Moses Montefiore.
He was the intellectual founder of Anglo-Liberal Judaism and the founding president of the World Union for Progressive Judaism, a scholar of the Hebrew Bible, rabbinic literature and New Testament, an influential anti-Zionist leader in the communal body, the Anglo-Jewish Association, and an educatior.
He was a significant figure in the contexts of modern Jewish religious thought, Jewish-Christian relations, and Anglo-Jewish socio-politics.
He was educated at Balliol College, Oxford, where he obtained a first-class honours degree in the classical final examination, and where he came under the influence of Benjamin Jowett and T. H. Green.
Intended originally for the ministry of the West London Synagogue, he studied theology in Berlin, but finding himself unable to sympathize with the arrest of the Reform Movement, he devoted himself instead to scholarly and philanthropic pursuits.
He nevertheless continued to be a spiritual teacher and preacher, though in a lay capacity, and published a volume of sermons, in conjunction with Israel Abrahams, entitled "Aspects of Judaism" (London, 1894).
In 1886, he was selected by the Hibbert trustees to deliver their course of lectures for 1892 ("The Origin of Religion as Illustrated by the Ancient Hebrews").
In these lectures, Montefiore made a permanent contribution to the science of theology.
In 1896, he published the first volume of his "Bible for Home Reading," forming a commentary on the Bible with moral reflections from the standpoint of the "higher criticism"; the second volume appeared in 1899.
In 1888 Montefiore founded and edited, in conjunction with Israel Abrahams, the "Jewish Quarterly Review", a journal that stood on the very highest level of contemporary Jewish scholarship, and in which numerous contributions from his pen have appeared.
Among Jewish religious leaders, Montefiore was unusual for the time and energy he devoted to the study of Christianity.
He provoked considerable controversy for what was perceived by many to be an overly sympathetic attitude towards Jesus and Paul of Tarsus.
Inter alia, he wrote a two-volume commentary on the Synoptic gospels in the early part of the twentieth century, What A Jew Thinks about Jesus, published in 1935, and Judaism and St. Paul (1914).
Montefiore was one of the leading authorities on questions of education; he was for some time a member of the School Board for London, and was (1904) president of the Froebel Society and the Jews' Infant School, London, and a member of numerous other educational bodies.
Montefiore was mainly instrumental in enabling Jewish pupil teachers at elementary schools to enjoy the advantages of training in classes held for the purpose at the universities; he was on the council of Jews' College and of the Jewish Religious Education Board.
He ranked as one of the leading philanthropists in the Anglo-Jewish community and held office in various important bodies.
He was elected president of the Anglo-Jewish Association in 1895, and he was a prominent member of the Council of the Jewish Colonization Association.
Montefiore showed great sympathy with all liberal tendencies in Jewish religious movements in London and was president of the Jewish Religious Union.
He was president of the Jewish Historical Society of England in 1899-1900.
He assisted Rev.
Simeon Singer in preparing the standard Anglo-Jewish prayer book.
This was acknowledged in the original preface, but his name was removed from the preface of the second edition.
As a revered scholar, philanthropist and spiritual authority, Claude Montefiore belongs to that important group of learned laymen who have sought to revolutionise Judaism.
He was a founder of British Liberal Judaism at the turn of the 20th Century, considered to be the most original Anglo-Jewish religious thinker of his day, and still remains a highly controversial figure.
Montefiore infuriated his enemies and often alienated his supporters with his radical agenda in which he applied the findings of historical and literary analysis to the Jewish scriptures, attempted to radically systemise rabbinic thought, and by his desire to learn from and re-express aspects of Christian theology.
The extent to which he incorporated the teachings of Jesus and Paul into his own ethical and theological musings makes him unique among Jewish reformers.
In his dealings with Christians and Christian thought, he can also be regarded as a forerunner to those who would later fully partake in Jewish-Christian dialogue.
Montefiore is an important figure in Anglo-Jewish history, not least for the way in which his complex identity reflects the difficulty inherent in attempting to make Judaism genuinely relevant to the modern world.
Eugene John Gerber (born April 30, 1931) is an American prelate of the Roman Catholic Church.
He served as Bishop of Dodge City from 1976 to 1982, and Bishop of Wichita from 1982 to 2001.
Eugene Gerber was born in Kingman, Kansas, to Cornelius and Lena (née Tiesmeyer) Gerber.
The fourth of seven children, he has two brothers, Jerome and Larry, and four sisters, Kathleen, Helen, Leola, and Joan.
</ref> At his baptism on May 1, 1931, the officiating priest predicted to Gerber's father, "Some day this boy will become a priest!"
He was raised on a farm in Waterloo, and entered Immaculate Conception Seminary in Conception, Missouri, in 1945.
Two years later, he transferred to Kingman High School, where he was known as a Frank Sinatra look-alike and graduated in 1949.
Gerber studied accounting at Wichita State University before returning to Immaculate Conception Seminary.
In May 1955, he graduated from St. Thomas Aquinas Seminary in Denver, Colorado, from where he obtained a B.A.
in Philosophy (1955), a M.A.
in Religious Education (1958), and a Bachelor's in Sacred Theology through the seminary's affiliation with the Catholic University of America.
He became a subdeacon and later deacon in 1958.
Gerber was ordained to the priesthood by Bishop Mark Carroll on May 19, 1959, and then served as an associate pastor at St. Anne Church and Church of the Magdalen in Wichita.
In 1962, he became an instructor at Notre Dame High School, teaching algebra and religion, and working as a guidance counselor.
He also served as moderator of the Catholic Youth Organization.
In May 1963, Gerber was named Assistant Chancellor for the Diocese of Wichita and associate pastor of Holy Savior Church.
He also earned a Bachelor's Education from Wichita State in June 1963.
In addition to his role as Assistant Chancellor, Gerber became secretary to Bishop Leo Bryne and associate pastor of St. Thomas Aquinas Church in August 1964.
He was later made Vice Chancellor of the diocese (1965), business manager of the diocesan newspaper (1967), and associate pastor at St. Mary Cathedral (1968).
In 1969, Gerber was appointed to the Governing Board of the Holy Family Center for the mentally disabled.
He became diocesan director of the Cursillo movement in 1970, and diocesan Chancellor in 1973.
Continuing as Chancellor, he served as pastor of Blessed Sacrament Church from 1973 to 1975.
In October 1975, he was sent to Rome to undertake his postgraduate studies in theology and Scripture.
He received a Licentiate of Sacred Theology summa cum laude from the Angelicum.
Upon his return to the United States in February 1976, he resumed his work as Chancellor, as well as becoming chaplain to the Sisters of St. Joseph and Vicar for Religious.
On October 16, 1976, Gerber was appointed the third Bishop of Dodge City by Pope Paul VI.
He received his episcopal consecration on the following December 14 from Bishop David Maloney, with Bishops Marion Forst and Richard Hanifen serving as co-consecrators.
After Ignatius J. Strecker, Gerber is the second native of the Wichita diocese to become a bishop.
He was formally installed as Bishop the next day, on December 15, at the Dodge City Civic Center.
He served on the National Conference of Catholic Bishops' Ad Hoc Committee on Parish Renewal for four years.
Gerber was later named the sixth Bishop of Wichita on November 17, 1982.
Within the next twenty days, both of his parents died.
Gerber was installed on February 9, 1983.
He received Thomas J. Olmsted as a coadjutor bishop in April 1999, and resigned as Bishop on October 4, 2001.
He has since served as a chaplain to the Discalced Carmelite Sisters and as a spiritual director for priests.
During his tenure, he served on the National Council of Catholic Bishops(NCCB) Ad Hoc Committee for Parish Renewal; the NCCB Committee on the Permanent Diaconate; two terms on the Administrative Board of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, representing Region IX; on the NCCB Liaison Committee with the Leadership Conference of Women Religious (LCWR); the Communications Committee; the Pastoral Research and Practices Committee; the Liaison Committee with NC News; the NCCB Pro-Life Committee; Committee for Women in Society and the Church; and the Ad Hoc Committee on Stewardship.
Locally, Bishop Gerber served on the Board of Directors for the Wichita Urban League, the Board of Via Christi Health Systems, HopeNet, Kansas Foodbank Warehouse, Inc., and Wichita Grand Opera.
Karekin I (Eastern Armenian pronunciation: Garegin I) (Armenian: ) (August 27, 1932 – June 29, 1999), served as the Catholicos of the Armenian Apostolic Church between 1995 and 1999.
Previously, he served as the Catholicos of Cilicia from 1983 to 1994 as Karekin II (Armenian: ).
Karekin, baptized Neshan Sarkissian, was born in Kesab, Syria, where he attended the Armenian elementary school.
In 1946 he was admitted to the Theological Seminary of the Armenian Catholicate of Cilicia and in 1949 ordained a deacon.
In 1952, after having graduated with high honors, he was ordained a celibate priest and renamed Karekin.
He joined the order of the Armenian Catholicosate of Cilicia.
In 1955 he presented his doctoral thesis on the subject "The Theology of the Armenian Church, According to Liturgical Hymns Sharakans" and was promoted to the ecclesiastical degree of Vardapet.
In next year he served as member of the faculty of the theological seminary in Antelias, Lebanon.
He studied theology for two years at Oxford University and wrote The Council of Chalcedon and the Armenian Church, published in 1965 in London.
Upon his return to Lebanon, he served as dean of the seminary.
From 1963, he became an aide to Catholicos Khoren I in which function he had many ecumenical contacts.
He served as observer at the Second Vatican Council, the Lambeth Conference of 1968 and the Addis Ababa Conference of the heads of the Oriental Orthodox Churches.
He lectured on theology, literature, history and culture at universities in Beirut, Romania, Moscow and Kotayyam (India).
His ecclesiastical career advanced quickly: In 1963 he was elevated to senior archmandrite and on January 19, 1964, consecrated bishop by Catholicos Khoren.
In 1971 he was elected Prelate of the Diocese of New Julfa in Isfahan, Iran.
In 1973, he received the rank of archbishop and was appointed Pontifical Legate of the Eastern Prelacy of the Armenia's Holy Apostolic Church of America (in New York) and in 1975 its Primate.
During his time in the United States, he took special care of the younger generation of Armenians and played a key role in the fundraising for Lebanon 1976-1977.
In 1977, he was elected Catholicos of the Catholicosate of Cilicia and served as Catholicos Coadjutor ( ) until the death of Catholicos Khoren I in 1983.
When fully installed as Catholicos Karekin II of the Great House of Cilicia, he lavished special attention on religious education, modernizing and promoting the theological seminary.
His pontifical visits took him to Lebanon, Syria, Iran, Cyprus, the United States and Canada, as well as Kuwait and the other Arab states of the Persian Gulf.
Another important facet of his Catholicosate were his ecumenical contacts.
Karekin II undertook ecumenical visits to Pope John Paul II, George Carey, the Archbishop of Canterbury, and Shenouda III, Pope of the Coptic Church, but also to the Swiss Reformed Churches and the Lutheran Churches of Denmark and Germany.
In 1989 he was elected honorary president of the Middle East Council of Churches.
Karekin wrote several books and booklets in Armenian, English, and French and published many articles and studies on theological, Armenological, philosophical, ethical and literary subjects in periodicals.
He also made frequent visits to the Mother See of the Apostolic Church and expressed solidarity on a visit of the earthquake area in Armenia 1988 together with Catholicos Vazgen I.
After the death of Catholicos Vazgen I in 1994, Catholicos Karekin Sarkissian was elected Supreme Patriarch and Catholicos of All Armenians by a National Ecclesiastical Assembly of 400 delegates and hereafter became known as Karekin I, being the first Supreme Patriarch with that name.
In November 1998, Karekin I underwent cancer treatment in New York.
He appointed archbishop Karekin Nersessian, later Karekin II, as Vicar General.
Karekin I died in June 1999.
Robert Letham is Professor of Systematic and Historical Theology at the Union School of Theology, formerly Wales Evangelical School of Theology.
He is also Adjunct Professor of Systematic Theology at Westminster Theological Seminary.
Letham's academic education started with a B.A.
(Hons.)
in Politics awarded by University of Exeter in 1969.
He then gained a P.G.C.E.
in 1971 from the University of Nottingham.
He moved to Westminster Theological Seminary earning a M.A.R.
and Th.M.
in 1975 and 1976 respectively.
His Ph.D. came at University of Aberdeen in 1980.
He entered the Presbyterian Ministry at Emmanuel Presbyterian Church, Whippany, New Jersey from 1981 to 1986; also holding a similar office as Senior Minister at Emmanuel Orthodox Presbyterian Church in Wilmington, Delaware for 17 years.
His teaching career has seen him teach theology at London School of Theology, Westminster Theological Seminary Reformed Theological Seminary (Washington DC/Baltimore).
More recently holding a visiting role as Professor of Theology at Reformed Theological Seminary, Baltimore & Washington, D.C., from 2001 to 2007 and similar at Westminster Theological Seminary between 1981–1986 and since 2001.
Currently he is Senior Tutor in Systematic and Historical Theology, Wales Evangelical School of Theology a position he has held since 2007.
He is additionally Visiting Professor, Doctor of Ministry Program a the Ligonier Ministries own Reformation Bible College.
Catholic moral theology is a major category of doctrine in the Roman Catholic church, equivalent to a religious ethics.
Moral theology encompasses Roman Catholic social teaching, Catholic medical ethics, sexual ethics, and various doctrines on individual moral virtue and moral theory.
It can be distinguished as dealing with "how one is to act," in contrast to dogmatic theology which proposes "what one is to believe."
Sources of Catholic moral theology include both the Old Testament and the New Testament, and philosophical ethics such as natural law that are seen as compatible with Catholic doctrine.
Moral theology was mostly undifferentiated from theology in general during the patristic era, and is found in the homilies, letters and commentaries on Scripture of the early Church fathers.
During the Middle Ages, moral theology developed in precision and scope through scholasticism.
Contemporary Catholic moral theology is developed by acts of the Magisterium, by the Pope, other bishops, and by the works of lay Catholic moral theologians, which include magisterial teachings, as well as (in some matters) theological opinions.
Examples of Catholic moral theologians include St. Alphonsus Liguori, Germain Grisez (author of The Way of the Lord Jesus) and John Finnis (author of Natural Law and Natural Rights).
Moral theology tends to be advanced most authoritatively through official statements of doctrine, such as papal encyclicals, which are based on the dogmatic pronouncements of Ecumenical Councils (e.g., Vatican II), Sacred Scriptures, and Sacred Tradition.
In addition, moral theologians publish their own works and write in a variety of journals devoted in whole, or in part to moral theology.
These scholarly journals are helpful in making the theology of the Church more clear and accessible to others, and serve as a forum in which scholarly discussion of understanding and application of issues occurs.
However, these journals per se do not add or remove anything from Catholic teaching.
In a deontological approach, morality takes the form of a studying of "how one is to act" in relation to the laws established by the faith.
In a teleological approach, "how one is to act" is related to the ultimate end which is again established by the faith.
In a dialogic approach, morality follows the pattern of faith directly, the "how one is to act" is related to an encounter with God through faith.
The Reformed systematic theology bibliography lists complete works of systematic theology in the Reformed tradition.
Systematic theology is the orderly formulation of Christian doctrines and beliefs.
This bibliography includes works which attempt to present a coherent account of all major doctrines of the Reformed faith.
Theologians considered by scholars to be in the Reformed tradition are included, even if they are considered to have departed from any particular conception of the Reformed faith.
Dogmatics is sometimes used as a synonym for "systematic theology".
Dogmatic theology properly covers beliefs which are normative within a church, while systematics may cover beliefs of individual theologians which are not considered to be firmly established.
Kunegonda Elizabeth (Kune) Biezeveld (13 April 1948, The Hague &ndash; 7 September 2008, Hilversum) was a Dutch theologian.
She was a member of the Dutch Reformed Church (since 2004 the Protestant Church in the Netherlands).
Biezeveld studied theology at Leiden University.
Afterwards she was a minister in Zandvoort, Voorthuizen and in a hospital in Blaricum.
She took her Doctor of Theology in 1996.
In the same year she became a lecturer dogmatics and Biblical theology at Leiden University.
She became a personal professor in women's studies theology at the same university in 2002.
Biezeveld was especially interested in feminist theology.
She had moderate views of this brand of theology and was in favour of a connection with classical theology.
Kune Biezeveld died at the age of 60 of pancreatic cancer.
Religion and mythology differ but have overlapping aspect.
Both terms refer to systems of concepts that are of high importance to a certain community, making statements concerning the supernatural or sacred.
Generally, mythology is considered one component or aspect of religion.
Religion is the broader term: besides mythological aspects, it includes aspects of ritual, morality, theology, and mystical experience.
A given mythology is almost always associated with a certain religion such as Greek mythology with Ancient Greek religion.
Disconnected from its religious system, a myth may lose its immediate relevance to the community and evolve—away from sacred importance—into a legend or folktale.
Religion is a belief concerning the supernatural, sacred, or divine, and the moral codes, practices, values, and institutions associated with such belief.
Religious beliefs and practices may include the following: Some religions do not include all these features.
For instance, belief in a deity is not essential to Buddhism.
The term mythology usually refers either to a system of myths or to the study of myths.
However, the word "myth" itself has multiple (and some contradictory) definitions: In regards to the study of culture and religion, these are some of the definitions scholars have used: The relationship between religion and myth depends on what definition of "myth" one uses.
By Robert Graves's definition, a religion's traditional stories are "myths" if and only if one does not belong to the religion in question.
By Segal's definition, all religious stories are myths—but simply because nearly all stories are myths.
By the folklorists' definition, all myths are religious (or "sacred") stories, but not all religious stories are myths: religious stories that involve the creation of the world (e.g., the stories in Genesis) are myths; however, religious stories that don't explain how things came to be in their present form (e.g., hagiographies of famous saints) are not myths.
It should be noted that most definitions of "myth" limit myths to stories.
Thus, non-narrative elements of religion, such as ritual, are not myths.
Given any of the above definitions of "myth", the myths of many religions, both ancient and modern, share common elements.
Widespread similarities between religious mythologies include the following: The similarities between cultures and time periods can be useful, but it is usually not easy to combine beliefs and histories from different groups.
Simplification of cultures and time periods by eliminating detailed data remain vulnerable or flimsy in this area of research.
Though there are similarities among most religious mythologies, there are also contrasts.
Many mythologies focus on explanations of the universe, natural phenomena, or other themes of human existence, often ascribing agency to one or more deities or other supernatural forces.
However, some religions have very few of this kind of story of cosmic explanation.
For instance, the Buddhist parable of the arrow warns against such speculations as "[Is] the world eternal or not eternal?
[Is] the soul different from the body?
[Does] the enlightened exist after death or not?
", , viewing them as irrelevant to the goal of escaping suffering.
In academia, the term "myth" often refers to stories whose culture regards them as true (as opposed to fictitious).
Thus, many scholars will call a body of stories "mythology", leaving open the question of whether the stories are true or false.
For example, in Tree of Souls: The Mythology of Judaism, English professor Howard Schwartz writes, "the definition of 'mythology' offered here does not attempt to determine if biblical or subsequent narratives are true or false, i.e., historically accurate or not".
Since the beginning of modern philosophy and science in the 16th century, many Western intellectuals have seen myth as outdated.
In fact, some argued that the Christian religion would be better off without mythology, or even that Christianity would be better off without religion: <blockquote>"[J.
A. T.] Robinson argued in favor of 'the detaching of the Christian doctrine of God from any necessary dependence on a "supernaturalistic" worldview'.
He understood this as a prophetic aspect of the Church's ministry to the world.
[...] At this time atheism was regarded as the Christian Gospel that should be preached to the world.
J. J. Altizer, for example, maintained [this] boldly by stating, 'Throughout its history Christian theology has been thwarted from reaching its intrinsic goal by its bondage to a transcendent, a sovereign, and an impassive God'.
[...] [Dietrich] Bonhoffer called persistently for 'Religionless Christianity'.
"< </blockquote> In the 20th century, many scholars have resisted this trend, defending myth from modern criticism.
Mircea Eliade, a professor of the history of religions, declared that myth did not hold religion back, that myth was an essential foundation of religion, and that eliminating myth would eliminate a piece of the human psyche.
Eliade approached myth sympathetically at a time when religious thinkers were trying to purge religion of its mythological elements: <blockquote>"Eliade wrote about 'sky and sky gods' when Christian theology was shaken at its very foundations by the 'death of God' theology.
He spoke of 'God up there' when theologians such as J.
A. T. Robinson were busy with erasing the mythical language of [a] three-storied universe that underlies the early Christian thought and experience.
"< </blockquote> Similarly, Joseph Campbell believed that people could not understand their individual lives without mythology to aid them.
By recalling the significance of old myths, he encouraged awareness of them and the creation of myths for the contemporary age.
Most religions contain a body of traditional sacred stories that are believed to express profound truth.
Some religious organizations and practitioners believe that some or all of their traditional stories are not only sacred and "true" but also historically accurate and divinely revealed and that calling such stories "myths" disrespects their special status.
Other religious organizations and practitioners have no problem with categorizing their sacred stories as myths.
Some religious believers take offense when what they consider to be historical aspects of their faith are labeled as "myth".
Such believers distinguish between religious fables or myths, on one hand, and those sacred narratives which are described by their tradition as being history or revelation, on the other.
For instance, Catholic priest Father John A. Hardon insists that "Christianity is not mythology.
What we believe in is not religious fantasies, no matter how pious."
Evangelical Christian theologian Carl F. H. Henry insisted that "Judeo-Christian revelation has nothing in common with the category of myth".
Especially within Christianity, objection to the word "myth" rests on a historical basis.
By the time of Christ, the Greco-Roman world had started to use the term "myth" (Greek muthos) to mean "fable, fiction, lie"; as a result, the early Christian theologians used "myth" in this sense.
Thus, the derogatory meaning of the word "myth" is the traditional Christian meaning, and the expression "Christian mythology", as used in academic discourse, </ref> may offend Christians for this reason.
In addition, this early Christian use of the term "myth" passed into popular usage.
Thus, when essential sacred mysteries and teachings are described as myth, in modern English, the word often still implies that it is "idle fancy, fiction, or falsehood".
This description could be taken as a direct attack on religious belief, quite contrary to the meaning ostensibly intended by the academic use of the term.
Further, in academic writing, though "myth" usually means a fundamental worldview story, even there it is occasionally ambiguous or clearly denotes "falsehood", as in the "Christ myth theory".
The original term "mythos" (which has no pejorative connotation in English) may be a better word to distinguish the positive definition from the negative.
Modern day clergy and practitioners within some religious movements have no problem classifying the religion's sacred stories as "myths".
They see the sacred texts as indeed containing religious truths, divinely inspired but delivered in the language of mankind.
J.R.R.
Tolkien's love of myths and devout Catholic faith came together in his assertion that mythology is the divine echo of "the Truth".
Tolkien wrote that myths held "fundamental things".
He expressed these beliefs in his poem Mythopoeia circa 1931, which describes myth-making as an act of "sub-creation" within God's primary creation.
The poem in part says creation is "myth-woven and elf-patterned": Tolkien's opinion was adopted by another Christian writer, C. S. Lewis, in their conversations: "Tolkien explained to Lewis that the story of Christ was the true myth at the very heart of history and at the very root of reality."
C. S. Lewis freely called the Christ story a "true myth", and he believed that even pagan myths express spiritual truths.
In his opinion, the difference between the Christ story and pagan myths is that the Christ story is historically as well as spiritually true.
"The story of Christ," writes Lewis, <blockquote>"is simply a true myth: a myth working on us in the same way as the others, but with this tremendous difference that it really happened: and one must be content to accept it in the same way, remembering that it is God's myth where the others are men's myths: i. e. the Pagan stories are God expressing Himself through the minds of poets, using such images as He found there, while Christianity is God expressing Himself through what we call real things.
"< Another Christian writer, the Catholic priest Father Andrew Greeley, freely applies the term "myth" to Christianity.
In his book Myths of Religion, he defends this terminology: <blockquote>"Many Christians have objected to my use of this word [myth] even when I define it specifically.
They are terrified by a word which may even have a slight suggestion of fantasy.
However, my usage is the one that is common among historians of religion, literary critics, and social scientists.
It is a valuable and helpful usage; there is no other word which conveys what these scholarly traditions mean when they refer to myth.
The Christian would be well advised to get over his fear of the word and appreciate how important a tool it can be for understanding the content of his faith.
"< At a "Consultation on the Relationship Between the Wesleyan Tradition and the Natural Sciences" in Kansas City, Missouri, on October 19, 1991, Dennis Bratcher presented a discussion of the adaptation of Near Eastern mythical thought by the Israelites.
Bratcher argued that the Old Testament absorbed Near Eastern pagan mythology (although he drew a sharp distinction between the literally-interpreted myths of the Near Eastern pagans and the "mythopoetic" use of imagery from pagan myths by the Hebrews).
During this presentation, he gave the following disclaimer: <blockquote>"the term 'myth' as used here does not mean 'false' or 'fiction.'
Even in my old and yellowed Webster's, 'fiction' is the third meaning of the word.
In its primary and more technical meaning 'myth' refers to a story or group of stories that serve to explain how a particular society views their world.
"< Some Jewish scholars, including Dov Noy, a professor of folklore at Hebrew University and founder of the Israel Folktale Archives, and Howard Schwartz, Jewish anthologist and English professor at the University of Missouri – St. Louis, have discussed traditional Jewish stories as "mythology".
Schwarz authored the book Tree of Souls: The Mythology of Judaism.
It consists of myths and belief statements excerpted from—and, in some cases, synthesized from a number of excerpts from—both Biblical and non-Biblical Jewish texts.
According to Schwartz, the Jewish people continue to elaborate on, and compose additions to, their traditional mythology.
In the book's introduction, Schwartz states that the word "myth", as used in the book, "is not offered to mean something that is not true, as in the current popular usage".
Neopagans frequently refer to their sacred stories as "myths".
Asatru, a modern-day revival of Germanic Paganism, holds "that the Eddas, Myths and Norse Sagas are the divinely inspired wisdom of [its] religion".
Wicca, another Neopagan movement, also applies the term "mythology" to its stories.
The Dewey Decimal system covers religion in the 200 range, with books on "Religious mythology & social theology", a subset listed under 201.
Nestor is a given name, often claimed to be of Greek origin.
In Greek mythology it comes from that of the son of Neleus, the King of Pylos and Chloris.
The Greek derivation is from a combination of "νέομαι" [neomai] - "go back", and "νόστος" [nostos] - "one who returns from travels".
Another theory makes derivation from Hebrew by combination of "נֵס" [nes] - "miracle", and "תּוֹרָה" [tora] - Torah.
It is a well used phrase in religious text of Jewish tradition.
The Koran Interpreted is a translation of the Qur'an (the Islamic religious text) by Arthur John Arberry.
The translation is from the original Arabic into English.
First published in 1955, it is one of the most prominent written by a non-Muslim scholar.
The title acknowledges the orthodox Islamic view that the Qur'an cannot be translated, merely interpreted.
Khaleel Mohammed writes that "the translation is without prejudice and is probably the best around," while M. A. S. Abdel Haleem, himself a translator of the Qur'an, writes that: Originally published in two volumes, the first containing suras 1-20, the second containing 21-114, the text continues to be printed to this day, normally in one single volume.
The world's religions have had differing relationships with alcohol.
Many religions forbid alcoholic consumption or see it sinful or negative.
Others have allocated a specific place for it, such as in the Christian practice of using wine for Communion.
Research has been conducted by social scientists and epidemiologists to see if potential links exist between religiosity and alcoholism.
In Hinduism, wine as medicine is documented in the ancient Indian healing system of Ayurveda.
Arishthas and Asavas are fermented juices, and herbs.
Ayurveda, the oldest, documented system of medicine does not recommend wine for everyone.
Wine is a potent healer for specific health conditions, on the other hand drinking wine without getting a pulse diagnosis done by an Ayurvedic doctor, may work the other way around.
For instance, wine is recommended in specified quantity for Kapha body types.
Jainism is strictly against alcohol.
Jainism, which preaches nonviolence and vegetarianism, does not allow alcoholic beverages because their fermentation depends on microorganisms which makes the alcohol non-vegetarian.
Buddhists typically avoid consuming alcohol (surāmerayamajja, referring to types of intoxicating fermented beverages), as it violates the 5th of the Five Precepts, the basic Buddhist code of ethics and can disrupt mindfulness and impeded one's progress in the Noble Eightfold Path.
An initiated Sikh cannot use intoxicants, of which alcohol is one.
Alcoholic consumption is not prohibited by the Jewish faith and appears within biblical text in several instances.
In Gen. 9:20-27, Noah becomes intoxicated from his wine and lies unclothed in his tent where his youngest son discovers him while Noah is asleep.
In Psalm 104:15 it is written that wine, “gladdens human hearts.” Excessive consumption and drunkenness, however, is discouraged yet is still not considered a condemnable action.
Leviticus 10:9 reads: “A Kohen (priest) must not enter the Temple intoxicated.” Consuming alcohol to carry out religious duty (such as sanctifying the Sabbath with wine) is prescribed and regularly practiced within Judaism.
Anecdotal evidence supports that Jewish communities, on the whole, view alcoholic consumption more negatively in comparison to Protestant Christian groups.
The small sample of Jewish individuals viewed alcohol as destructive while a sample of Protestants referred to it as “relaxing.” Alcoholic beverages appear in the Bible, though drunkenness is condemned (by the stories of Noah and Lot).
In the Catholic Church, the wine becomes the blood of Jesus Christ through transubstantiation.
In Protestant denominations, the wine is simply a symbol of the blood of Christ.
Monastic communities have brewed beer and made wine.
Some Christians, including Pentecostals , Baptists and Methodists, today believe one ought to abstain from alcohol.
Alcohol consumption is prohibited by Mormonism's "Word of Wisdom".
Temperance and prohibitionist movements have often had religious elements: the movement which led to prohibition in the United States was started by Methodists and other Christian movements (see, for instance, Woman's Christian Temperance Union).
While not specifically forbidden in the Qur'an, there is a consensus among theologians that alcohol consumption is prohibited by Islam because it weakens the conscience of the believer.
However, this has not prevented inhabitants of Muslim majority countries from producing alcoholic beverages such as rakı in Turkey, boukha in Tunisia or wine in Morocco and Algeria.
Wine was even celebrated by the 12th-century Muslim Sufi philosopher Omar Khayyám.
In the Qur'an, intoxicants, i.e.
all kinds of alcoholic drinks, are variably referenced as incentives from Satan, as well as a cautionary note against their adverse effect on human attitude in several verses: (Surat V, 90).
<br /> Two others find that wine can be a great blessing and a curse.
But the latter is often superior to the good.
(Surat II, 219) (Surat XVI, 67).
<br /> The last two surats about wine make it one of the delights of paradise promised by Muhammad (Surat XLVII, 15) Contrary to popular belief, alcohol has not always been forbidden by Islam and theories on this subject have often varied.
The verse "And from the fruits of the palm trees and grapevines you take intoxicant and good provision.
Indeed in that is a sign for a people who reason."
(Quran, 16, 67) is subject to many interpretations Islam's teaching that the Qur'an was revealed to Muhammad over a period of twenty years, it is by seeing the actions that people committed under the influence of alcohol (wine) that alcohol was gradually forbidden by Islam.
In Ancient Egyptian Religion, beer and wine were drunk and offered to the gods in rituals and festivals.
Beer and wine were also stored with the mummified dead in Egyptian burials.
Other ancient religious practices like Chinese ancestor worship, Sumerian and Babylonian religion used alcohol as offerings to gods and to the deceased.
The mesopotamian cultures had various wine gods and a Chinese imperial edict (c. 1,116 B.C.)
states that drinking alcohol in moderation is prescribed by Heaven.
In the ancient mediterranean world, the Cult of Dionysus and the Orphic mysteries used wine as part of their religious practices.
During Dionysian festivals and rituals, wine was drunk as way to reach ecstatic states along with music and dance.
Intoxication from alcohol was seen as a state of possession by spirit of the God of Wine Dionysus.
Religious drinking festivals called Bacchanalia were popular in Italy and associated with the gods Bacchus and Liber.
These Dionysian rites were frequently outlawed by the Roman Senate.
In the Norse religion the drinking of Ales and Meads was important in several seasonal religious festivals such as Yule and Midsummer as well as more common festivities like wakes, christenings and ritual sacrifices called Blóts.
Neopagan and Wiccan religions also allow for the use of alcohol for ritual purposes as well as for recreation.
Sake is often consumed as part of Shinto purification rituals.
Sakes served to gods as offerings prior to drinking are called Omiki or Miki (お神酒, 神酒).
People drink Omiki with gods to communicate with them and to solicit rich harvests the following year.
Pastoral theology is the branch of practical theology concerned with the application of the study of religion in the context of regular church ministry.
This approach to theology seeks to give practical expression to theology.
Normally viewed as an 'equipping' of ministers, practical theology is often considered to be more pragmatic than speculative, indeed, essentially a practical science.
Hence its main interests are in those areas of theology which will aid clergy in ministry.
Topics tend to include homiletics, pastoral care, sacramental theology, and ethics.
All branches of theology, whether theoretical or practical, purpose in one way or another to make priests, pastors, and others in a pastoral role "the ministers of Christ, and the dispensers of the mysteries of God" (1 Corinthians 4:1).
Pastoral theology presupposes other various branches, accepts the apologetic, dogmatic, exegetic, moral, juridical, ascetical, liturgical, and other conclusions reached by the ecclesiastical student, and scientifically applies these various conclusions to the priestly ministry.
During the Middle Ages, there was not yet a separated and systematized science of pastoral theology.
Scholasticism did not recognize this science apart from other branches of theology.
Dogma and moral were so taught as to include the application of their conclusions to the care of souls.
Still, even then writings of the great Doctors of the Church were at times purely pastoral; such were the "Pastoral Care" of St. Gregory the Great; "Opuscula", 17-20, of St. Thomas Aquinas; St. Bonaventure's "De sex alis seraphim", "De regimine animæ", "Confessionale"; the "Summa theologica" (Books II, III), together with the "Summa confessionalis" of St. Antoninus, Bishop of Florence.
At the same time, writers on mystical theology have often entered into the domain of pastoral theology.
Not until the period of the Counter-Reformation did the science of pastoral theology take its present systematized form.
During the latter half of the fifteenth century, in certain places, pastoral duties were very much neglected.
By the dawn of the sixteenth century, the care of souls was to many priests and not a few bishops a lost or a never-acquired art, with the result that the laity were ready to throw off what was deemed to be a useless clerical yoke.
The Council of Trent set itself to bring about a true reformation of the priesthood.
Catholic bishops and theologians followed the lead of the council.
The result was the treatment of the care of souls as a science by itself.
Children usually acquire the religious views of their parents, although they may also be influenced by others they communicate with such as peers and teachers.
Aspects of this subject include rites of passage, education and child psychology, as well as discussion of the moral issue of religious education of children.
Most Christian churches practice infant baptism to enter children into the faith.
Some form of confirmation ritual occurs when the child has reached the age of reason and voluntarily accepts the religion.
Ritual circumcision is used to mark Jewish and Muslim and Coptic Christian and Ethiopian Orthodox Christian infant males as belonging to the faith.
Jewish boys and girls then confirm their belonging at a coming of age ceremony known as the Bar and Bat Mitzvah respectively.
A parochial school (US) or faith school (UK), is a type of school which engages in religious education in addition to conventional education.
Parochial schools may be primary or secondary, and may have state funding but varying amounts of control by a religious organization.
In addition there are religious schools which only teach the religion and subsidiary subjects (such as the language of the holy books), typically run on a part-time basis separate from normal schooling.
Examples are the Christian Sunday schools and the Jewish Hebrew schools.
Islamic religious schools are known in English by the Arabic loanword Madrasah.
Religion may have an influence on what goes on in state schools.
For example, in the UK the Education Act 1944 introduced the requirement for daily prayers in all state-funded schools, but later acts changed this requirement to a daily "collective act of worship", the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 being the most recent.
This also requires such acts of worship to be "wholly or mainly of a broadly Christian character".w www.teachernet.gov.uk</ref> The term "mainly" means that acts related to other faiths can be carried out providing the majority are Christian.
The creation-evolution controversy, especially the status of creation and evolution in public education, is a debate over teaching children the origin and evolution of life, mostly in conservative regions of the United States.
However, evolution is accepted by the Catholic Church and is a part of the Catholic Catechism.
In France, children are forbidden from wearing conspicuous religious symbols in public schools.
Many legal experts have argued that the government should create laws in the interests of the welfare of children, irrespective of the religion of their parents.
Nicholas Humphrey has argued that children "have a human right not to have their minds crippled by exposure to other people's bad ideas," and should have the ability to question the religious views of their parents.
"Parents' religion and children's welfare: debunking the doctrine of parents' rights, Philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer spoke of the subject in the 19th century: Several authors have been critical of religious indoctrination of children, such as Nicolas Humphrey, Daniel Dennett and Richard Dawkins.
Christopher Hitchens and Dawkins use the term child abuse to describe the harm that some religious upbringings inflict on children.
A. C. Grayling has argued "we are all born atheists... and it takes a certain amount of work on the part of the adults in our community to persuade [children] differently."
Dawkins has written a children's book that seeks to convince them of what he deems to be the fallacy of various religious teachings and states that he is angered by the labels "Muslim child" or "Catholic child".
He asks how a young child can be considered intellectually mature enough to have such independent views on the cosmos and humanity’s place within it.
By contrast, Dawkins points out, no reasonable person would speak of a "Marxist child" or a "Tory child."
He suggests there is little controversy over such labeling because of the "weirdly privileged status of religion".
On several occasions Dawkins has also made the controversial claim that sexually abusing a child is "arguably less" damaging than "the long term psychological damage inflicted by bringing up a child Catholic in the first place".
Islam has permitted the child marriage of older men to girls as young as 10 years of age.
The Seyaj Organization for the Protection of Children describes cases of a 10-year-old girl being married and raped in Yemen (Nujood Ali), a 13-year-old Yemeni girl dying of internal bleeding three days after marriage, and a 12-year-old girl dying in childbirth after marriage.
Latter Day Saint church founder Joseph Smith married girls as young as 13 and 14, and other Latter Day Saints married girls as young as 10.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints eliminated underaged marriages in the 19th century, but several fundamentalist branches of Mormonism continue the practice.
A study of 2604 US children ages six to nineteen found positive correlations between physical and psychological health and religious affiliation and/or church attendance.
This included 272 children whose parents (children 6&ndash;9) or the children themselves (12&ndash;19) expressed no religious affiliation.
However, of this group, 22% state that religion is important and 35% attend church.
The study found children ages six to nineteen who attend religious services are at lower risk of suicide or suicide attempts, as well as alcohol and drug use and dangerous sexual behavior.
Some religions prohibit blood transfusions, vaccinations, contraception, and abortions, which may lead to adverse health consequences.
Membership in religious groups can moderate unhealthy behavior, provide social support, and enhance marital or financial prospects, and strengthen family bonds if the religion is shared by the whole family.
Religions can also help both adults and children with self-esteem, as well as provide meaning to life and reduce anxiety, but can increase guilt over perceived misdeeds.
Thus it is not clear whether this positive association is because of a positive effect of religion on health, an effect in the other direction, or an as of yet unknown lurking variable.
85 percent of religiously affiliated children are healthy overall, as opposed to 79 percent of non-affiliated children.
79 percent of religious children are deemed psychologically healthy compared to 73 percent of non religious children.
85 percent of children who attend church at least weekly are healthy and 83 percent of those who seldom or never attend are healthy.
For psychological health the numbers are 82 and 74 percent respectively.
62 percent of children say religion is important to them, 26 percent say it's somewhat important, and 13 percent say it's not important.
81 percent of those who view religion as important were found to be healthy and 65 percent of the not important group were healthy.
There was no difference found among the various religious denominations in regard to health.
The positive correlation between religion and health was strongest for 12-15 year olds.
Overall religious belief and participation have the same positive health association as being breastfed or having a mother who went to school 2.2 years longer than one who didn't.
They have half the health benefit of living with both parents.
Whether this association is a causal relationship in either direction (religion to good health or good health to religion) remains to be seen (see Correlation does not imply causation).
Some religions treat illness, both mental and physical, in a manner that does not heal, and in some cases exacerbates the problem.
Specific examples include faith healing of certain Christian sects, the Christian Science religion which eschews medical care, and exorcisms.
Faith based practices for healing purposes have come into direct conflict with both the medical profession and the law when victims of these practices are harmed, or in the most extreme cases, killed by these "cures."
A detailed study in 1998 found 140 instances of deaths of children due to religion-based medical neglect.
Most of these cases involved religious parents relying on prayer to cure the child's disease, and withholding medical care.
Jehovah's Witnesses object to blood transfusion primarily on religious grounds, they believe that blood is sacred and God said "abstain from blood" (Acts 15:28-29).
Dawkins proposes that religion is a by-product arising from other features of the human species that are adaptive.
One such feature is the tendency of children to "believe, without question, whatever your grown-ups tell you" (Dawkins, 2006, p.&nbsp;174).
Psychologist Paul Bloom sees religion as a by-product of children's instinctive tendency toward a dualistic view of the world, and a predisposition towards creationism.
Deborah Kelemen has also written that children are naturally teleologists, assigning a purpose to everything they come across.
Stabat Mater is the sixth full-length album by Stefano Lentini.
It was released on October 8, 2013.
The single 'Stabat Mater' is a part of the soundtrack of Wong Kar Wai's The Grandmaster, 2014 Oscar Nominee.
In an interview with the Pitchfork website, Lentini said: Sacred music is generally only referred to music based on religious texts.
I think this is wrong.
Any kind of music able to convey some Truth about existence should be regarded as “sacred”.
It is neither a matter of sound nor of musical instrument.
It is not a genre, but an attitude: whether it is symphonic or indie music, if there is some inner truth in it, a profound expressive intensity, then there’s sacredness.
Whatever is human is necessarily sacred, because humanity always deserves to be respected and honoured.
Before being “sacred” for its text, my Stabat Mater is mundanely sacred for the emotions it hopefully arouses.
<small>All songs written by Stefano Lentini</small>
Sorbian literature refers to the literature written by the Western Slavic people of Central Europe called the Sorbs in Sorbian languages (Upper Sorbian language and Lower Sorbian language).
Sorbian literature began with the Reformation and the translations of religious texts.
The first translation of the New Testament was made in 1549 by M. Jakubica and the first printed book in 1574 was Albin Moller's Zpevnik a katechism (Hymnal and catechism).
The British Library houses many copies of early Sorbian literature.
The earliest being a copy of the Lord's Prayer dating from 1603.
Sorbian is also noted in one of the first multi-lingual dictionaries; Megiser's Thesaurus polyglottus, published in Frankfurt in 1603.
Around twenty books were available by 1700, mostly religious in nature.
Little from this early period has survived.
Jurij Brězan published books both in Upper Sorbian and German and Jurij Koch in Lower Sorbian and German.
Sorbian poetry flourished in the late 1800s with one of the most notable poets being Handrij Zejler, who published between 1883 and 1891.
The longest running of various Sorbian journals is called the Casopis Macicy Serbskeje, published between 1848 and 1918.
The , also known as the Lamentations of Divergences, is a late 13th century short Buddhist text generally thought to have been written by Yuien, a disciple of Shinran.
In the Tannishō, Yuien is concerned about the rising doctrinal divergences that emerged in Jōdo Shinshū Buddhism after the death of their founder, so he wrote down dialogues between himself and Shinran that he could recall when his master was alive.
According to Yuien's own writing in the preface: Many of the conversations found in the Tannishō are very candid when compared to more formal religious texts, and this may explain some of the popularity of the Tannishō among Shin Buddhists.
The Tannishō allows Jōdo Shinshū Buddhists to peer into the mind of Shinran and see how he felt about practicing Jōdo Shinshū.
The Tannishō was also a major impetus for the start of The Dobokai Movement among the Higashi Hongwanji branch of Jōdo Shinshū.
The Tannishō is divided into 18 sections (sometimes called chapters), though many of these sections are very short.
Some are no longer than a couple sentences.
However, each section deals with a separate doctrinal issue.
Sections 1 through 10 focus on Shinran's thoughts with regard to Jōdo Shinshū, the nembutsu and Amida Buddha, while sections 11 through 18 deal with heretical ideas that Yuien wanted to dispel or correct on the basis of what Shinran had taught him.
The Theban Tomb TT319 is located in Deir el-Bahari, part of the Theban Necropolis, on the west bank of the Nile, opposite to Luxor.
The tomb belongs to the king's wife Neferu II, wife of the Ancient Egyptian king Mentuhotep II (around 2000 BC).
Neferu was the daughter of Queen Iah and Intef III.
The tomb of Neferu consisted of a chapel paved with slabs of limestone and carved into the rocks of Thebes.
This chapel was decorated with scenes in sunken and raised relief.
They show the queen with hairdressers, servants and religioues scenes.
However, today the scenes are only badly preserved.
The stones of the chapel were already in ancient times used as quarry.
These fragments are now in many museums around the world.
Behind the chapel there was a corridor leading to the burial chamber which was also decorated.
On the walls are painted friezes of burial goods and long religious texts, such as Coffin Texts.
In the burial chamber there also stood the sarcophagus of the queen.
The chamber was found disturbed, when excavated.
The tomb is located just to the north of the mortuary temple of Mentuhotep II, and is currently under the temple of Hatshepsut.
An entrance was left open in this later construction
The Semeiskie are a community of orthodox Old Believers who have lived in the Transbaikal since the reign of Catherine the Great.
The sacred rites and rituals of the Old Believers came to be in opposition to those of the official state church after the introduction of the 16th century religious reforms known as the Raskol.
Those who rejected the reforms became known as "Old Believers" and continued to practice their faith despite repression.
The Semeiskie were a particular group of Old Believers who fled to Gomel in Belarus (at that time part of Poland).
Catherine the Great then exiled the group to Buryatia, on the pretext that they could there become farmers for the Cossack guards who defended the borders of the empire.
The descendants of these original Semeiskie have lived in the region ever since.
The Semeiskie have a long oral tradition, in speech as well as vocal music.
The Semeiskie songs are notable for their polyphonic dissonance in both sacred and secular music.
The themes of the songs vary widely, from religious texts to everyday songs.
The cultural space and oral culture of the Semeiskie was placed on the UNESCO List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity in 2001.
Sikhism in Iraq does not have a permanent population, but has a historical presence because of travels by Guru Nanak and Sikh soldiers stationed in Iraq during World War I and World War II.
Guru Nanak traveled vast distances in four major journeys with his Muslim Minstrel, Bhai Mardana.
During one of those journeys, he traveled across the Muslim world and at one point stayed outside of Baghdad.
According to historical sources he held a dialogue with Sheikh Bahlool Dana, a Sufi saint.
At some point, a shrine to Guru Nanak was built alongside Bahlool Dana's tomb.
In the chaos following the 2003 invasion of Iraq looters or vandals stripped the monument of religious texts and a plaque commemorating the meeting.
During both world wars Sikh soldiers in the British Army were posted in Iraq.
During World War I the shrine to Guru Nanak was rediscovered by a Sikh captain, Dr Kirpal Singh, after being forgotten for centuries.
In the early 1930s Sikh soldiers repaired the shrine and during WWII continued its upkeep.
A pan-national epic is a lengthy work of poetry or prose that is widely taken to be representative of the pan-national character of a large cultural grouping that exceeds the bounds of a single nation-state or even a specific language or language group.
Pan-national epics can be subdivided into supranational epics, which are epics held dear to several national groups speaking more than one language, and language epics, which are more narrowly restricted to nations sharing the same language.
A nation can have its own distinct national epic in addition to a supranational and/or a language epic.
Examples of pan-national epics follow: For languages spread across various nations, earlier national epics of the older nation work as language epics.
For example, national epics of England, such as The Canterbury Tales, or the works of Shakespeare are used as language epics across the Anglosphere, and the Shahnameh, the national epic of Iran (Persia) is used as a language epic by other Persian-speaking communities, in Afghanistan, Uzbekistan, and Tajikistan.
See national epics for more examples.
Religious texts such as The King James Bible (English), Luther Bible (German), Quran (Arabic), and Tanakh (Hebrew) have similar impact within a specific language, while the Bible itself (in all translations) is instead a supranational epic of Western civilization.
The Pumi language (also known as Prinmi) is a Qiangic language used by the Pumi people, an ethnic group from Yunnan, China, as well as by the Tibetan people of Muli in Sichuan, China.
Most native speakers live in Lanping, Ninglang, Lijiang, Weixi and Muli.
Earlier works suggest there are two branches of Pumi (southern and northern), and they are not mutually intelligible.
A more refined division proposes three major groups: Western Prinmi (spoken in Lanping), Central Prinmi (spoken in southwestern Ninglang, Lijiang, Yulong and Yongsheng) and Northern Prinmi (spoken in northern Ninglang and Sichuan).
The autonym of the Pumi is in Western Prinmi, in Central Prinmi, and in Northern Prinmi with variants such as and t .
In Muli Bonist priests read religious texts in Tibetan, which needs to be interpreted into Prinmi.
An attempt to teach Pumi children to write their language using the Tibetan script has been seen in Ninglang.
A pinyin-based Roman script has been proposed, but is not commonly used.
Dialects of Pumi include the following (Pumiyu Fangyan Yanjiu 2001).
Old Babylonian oracle is a Sumerian myth, written on clay tablets dated to between 2340 to 2200 BC.
The myth was discovered on the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, catalogue of the Babylonian section (CBS), tablet number 8322 from their excavations at the temple library at Nippur.
This was translated by George Aaron Barton in 1918 and first published as "Sumerian religious texts" in Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions, number two, entitled "An Old Babylonian Oracle".
The tablet is by by at its thickest point.
Barton suggests the text is difficult and enigmatic, he confesses the interpretation put forward is uncertain and with great reserve.
He suggests that it describes an oracle given by a seer for a priest called "Allu-Kal" who wished to rebuild dwellings or a temple of cedar wood.
Barton suggests Enlil then appears and takes Enki's axe, presumably to chop cedars for the building he proceeds to guard.
Allu-Kal then entreats the gods for protection of the dwellings of cedar to which the gods exalt him in reply and he is called a "bearded prince", suggested as a hint that he may be deified as were Naram-Sin, Gudea and Shulgi.
Released in 2003, Adiemus V: Vocalise is the last album by Welsh composer Karl Jenkins as part of the five-album Adiemus project.
In contrast to Jenkins's past Adiemus compositions, several of the tracks in this album are arrangements or variations on existing classical works.
Additionally, the lyrics for some tracks are borrowed from religious texts or even the title of the piece rather than the invented phonetic language used exclusively in the preceding Adiemus albums.
Adiemus V: Vocalise features the broadest range in musical styles and instrumentation of the series.
<small>All tracks by Karl Jenkins</small> Common to albums in the Adiemus project, releases in different regions may have different cover art, such as the Japanese release of Adieums V: Vocalise.
The Murty Classical Library of India began publishing classics of Indian literature in January 2015.
The books, which are in dual-language format with the original language and English facing, are published by Harvard University Press.
The Columbia University scholar, Sheldon Pollock, is the library's general editor.
Pollock previously edited the Clay Sanskrit Library.
The library was established through a $5.2 million gift from Rohan Murty, the son of Infosys co-founder N. R. Narayana Murthy and social worker and author Sudha Murty.
The series will include translations from Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada, Hindi, Marathi, Punjabi, Sanskrit, Persian, Tamil, Telugu, Urdu, and other Indian languages.
It will include fiction, poetry, nonfiction, and religious texts from all Indian traditions including Buddhism and Islam.
The projected 500 volumes, to be published over a century, have a corpus of thousands of volumes of classic Indian literature to draw on.
Paperback versions of the books are available throughout the Indian subcontinent for the equivalent of 3 to 5 USD, depending on the volume's size.
Electronic editions of the works are planned for the future.
Mesehti was an ancient Egyptian nomarch of the 13th nomos of Upper Egypt ("the Upper Sycamore") around 2000 BCE, during the 11th dynasty.
In addition, he also was Seal-bearer and Overseer of the priests of Wepwawet.
Mesehti is well known for his funerary equipment, found in Asyut at the end of 19th century during an illegal excavation.
The contents of the tomb - which at the time of the discovery appeared undisturbed - was mainly sold to the Cairo Museum.
Among the objects of the funerary equipment, the most famous are the wooden models of soldiers: a group of striding Egyptian spearmen equipped with a hide shield and a white skirt, and another group composed of 40 striding nubian archers, darker-skinned and wearing a red loincloth.< <br> The tomb also contained two large wooden coffins whose interior is richly decorated with Coffin Texts; these coffins are among the main sources for this type of religious texts, which were much used during the First Intermediate Period and the Middle Kingdom.
The Madonna of the Rose Garden (Italian: Madonna del Roseto) is an International Gothic painting attributed to Michelino da Besozzo or Stefano da Verona.
Dating to c. 1420–1435, it is currently housed in the Castelvecchio Museum of Verona, northern Italy.
The painting shows the traditional theme of the Madonna with Child within an enclosure of roses, a hortus conclusus, symbol of her alleged virginity, in the presence of St. Catherine of Alexandria.
The latter, as a princess, is crowned, and is accompanied by her martyrdom attribute of the torture wheel.
There are also numerous slender angels.
They are performing a series of activities: reading (a hint to the religious texts), collecting petals of rose, playing near a Gothic font (symbolizing the definition of Mary as Fons gratiae, "Spring of Grace").
Two peacocks are roaming in the garden: they are a symbol of the immortality of Christ since early Christian times, when their flesh was considered not liable to rot.
The work has been attributed to both Stefano da Verona or Michelino da Besozzo, with more recent scholars tending to favor the latter.
The Kurma Purana ( , } is one of the eighteen Mahapurana, a genre of Hindu religious texts.
It is believed to have been directly narrated by the Lord Vishnu to the sage Narada, and it contains the details about the Kurma Avatar.
Narada is believed to have stated the contents of this Puranas to Suta, who narrated this Purana to an assembly of great sages.
The Padma Purana categorizes Kurma Purana as a Tamas Purana (Purana of darkness or ignorance).
The printed editions of this text are divided into two s (parts), the and the .
The has 53 chapters and the has 46 chapters.
The first eleven chapters in the are known as the Ishvara Gita, a teaching given by the god Shiva at Badrinath.
According to the tradition, the originally consisted of four s (sections): the , the , the and the .
The extant text would correspond to the .
1-22) gives a brief overview of these four sections.
According to this work, the consisted of 6,000 s (verses) and its contents agrees completely with the extant .
The consisted of 4,000 s and was divided into five s (sub-sections).
It was also known by the sobriquet the .
This section had dealt with the duties of the Brahmins, Kshatriyas, Vaishyas, Shudras and the mixed castes.
The had 2,000 s and was divided into six s. This section had dealt with the six magic acts: , , stambhana, , and .
The had 5,000 s and was divided into four s dealing with .
James Augustus Hessey (17 July 1814 – 24 December 1892) was a British cleric and Headmaster of Merchant Taylors' School, Northwood.
He was born in London, the eldest son of James Augustus Hessey of St. Bride's, London and was educated at Merchant Taylors' School and St. John's College, Oxford, where he was for some years a resident fellow and lecturer.
He graduated B.A.
in 1836, M.A.
in 1840, B.D.
in 1845 and D.C.L.
in 1846.
In 1839, he was made vicar of Helidon, Northamptonshire, appointed public examiner at Oxford in 1842 and select preacher in the university in 1849.
From 1845 to 1870 he was headmaster of Merchant Taylors' School and from 1850 to 1879 preacher of Gray's Inn.
From 1872 to 1874 he was classical examiner for the Indian civil service, before being collated Archdeacon of Middlesex in 1875, a post he filled until his death in 1892.
He had married Emma Cazenove, the daughter of R. Cazenove of Clapham.
He wrote a number of religious texts, including:
Steven Shaviro (born April 3, 1954) is an American cultural critic.
His most widely read book is Doom Patrols, a "theoretical fiction" that outlines the state of postmodernism during the early 1990s, using poetic language, personal anecdotes, and creative prose.
Additionally, Shaviro has written a book about film theory, The Cinematic Body, which examines the dominance of Lacanian tropes in contemporary academic film theory.
According to Shaviro, the use of psychoanalysis has mirrored the actions of a cult, with its own religious texts (essays by Freud and Lacan).
Shaviro's book Connected, Or, What It Means to Live in the Network Society, appeared in 2003.
A new book, Without Criteria: Kant, Whitehead, Deleuze, and Aesthetics was published in May 2009.
Shaviro earned a PhD from Yale in 1981.
After several years teaching at the University of Washington, he now resides in Detroit with his wife and daughters.
He teaches literature and film at Wayne State University.
He is currently at work on his latest book, tentatively titled The Age of Æsthetics, a series of essays on contemporary consumer culture, and the relationship between aesthetic values (style, specifically) and Marxist theory.
Throughout the history of literature, since the creation of bound texts in the forms of books and codices, various works have been published and written anonymously, often due to their political or controversial nature, or merely for the purposes of the privacy of their authors, among other reasons.
This article provides a list of literary works published anonymously, either attributed to "Anonymous", or with no specific author's name given.
Not included in this list are works which predate the advent of publishing and general attribution of authorship, such as ancient written inscriptions (such as hieroglyphic or pictographical, transcribed texts), certain historical folklore and myths of oral traditions now published as text, and reference or plain texts (letters, notes, graffiti) recovered archaeologically, which are otherwise unimportant to literary studies.
Religious texts and grimoires, which are often written anonymously, may appear, along with works initially written anonymously whose authors are now known.
This list is ordered alphabetically by title.
In modern philosophy, classical theism is a theism in which God is characterized as the absolutely metaphysically ultimate being, in contrast to other conceptions such as Pantheism, Panentheism, Polytheism, and Process Theism.
Whereas most theists agree that God is, at a minimum, all-knowing, all-powerful, and completely good, some classical theists go further and conceive of God as completely transcendent (totally independent of all else), simple, and having such attributes as immutability, impassibility, and timelessness.
Classical theism is, historically, the mainstream view in philosophy and is associated with the tradition of writers like Plato, Aristotle, Plotinus, Augustine, St. Anselm, Maimonides, Averroes and Thomas Aquinas.
In opposition to this tradition, there are, today, philosophers like Alvin Plantinga (who rejects divine simplicity), Richard Swinburne (who rejects divine timelessness) and William Lane Craig (who rejects both divine simplicity and timelessness), who can be viewed as theistic personalists.
As well, Gregory Palamas' defense of Hesychasm highlights the Essence-Energies distinction, as understood by the Eastern Orthodox Church.
Since classical theistic ideas are influenced by Greek philosophy and focus on God in the abstract and metaphysical sense, they can be difficult to reconcile with the "near, caring, and compassionate" view of God presented in the religious texts of the main monotheistic religions, particularly the Bible.
Johannes Emde was a German evangelist who worked in Indonesia.
He became one of the founders of the churches in East Java.
In Surabaya he was given the nickname of Saint Surabaya.
Johannes Emde was born in Arolsen, Germany in 1774 and died in Surabaya in 1859.
In Indonesia, Emde lived in Surabaya, earning his living as a watchmaker, and married a Javanese woman from the Solo kraton.
He was a Pietist, and was already living in Surabaya when he started preaching in about 1815.
Emde did his missionary work by asking children to spread the Gospel of Mark as translated by Bruchner to literate people at the markets.
This gospel was widely discussed because of how different it was from other religious texts available at the time.
Emde also taught the people of Surabaya about Christianity and how Christians had to be baptised, which had not been taught by Coenrad Laurens Coolen, a previous missionary.
Among those taught by Emde was a kyai from Madura named Midah, who was eventually baptised along with his followers by A. W.
Meijer., Although he respected the Javanese, he tried to keep his converts away from Javanese culture and Islam - for instance, he strictly forbade circumcision.
Because Emde's converts practiced Dutch culture, they were called Kristen Landa (Dutch Christians).
Iollan Mac an Leagha (fl.
c.1462-1473) was an Gaelic author and scribe.
Iollan, or Uilliam, Mac an Leagha was a member of 15th-century Irish scribal family.
Among his children were Connla, Eóghan, and Maoleachloinn (fl.
1487), all of whom worked as scribes throughout Ireland in the late 15th century.
His books contain lives of saints, homilies, prayers, with an excursion into mythology represented by a 'Life of Hercules' translated from a contemporary printed book."
A decorator and illuminator, Iollan was responsible for some of the most lavish and carefully planned books, one of which - 'History of the Children of Israel' - he boasted of writing in two summer days.
He also signed his name to the following: It has been suggested that this a volume referred to in medieval sources as The Book of Carrick.
It was printed as Annla Gearra as Proibhinse Ard Macha in 1958-59.
The latter was written by him in 1467 at Melaigh Móire, south of Windgap, on the borders of counties Kilkenny and Tipperary, for Aodh Mág Raith (died 1491).
This was begun in 1473 for Donnchadh mac Brian Dubh Ó Briain, the end which was partly written by his son, Maoleachloinn, in 1497; presumably Iollan was dead by then.
Religious texts by him are:
Born in the Upper Carniolan town of Kamnik, then part of the Habsburg Monarchy (now in Slovenia), he studied in Jesuit schools in Ljubljana, Gorizia, and Graz.
He was ordained a Roman Catholic priest in 1769 in Trieste, where he served until the Suppression of the Jesuits in 1773.
He then became the personal secretary of Bishop of Ljubljana Karl Herberstein.
Under Herberstein's influence, Japelj became sympathetic to Jansenist ideas.
With the support of Bishop Herberstein, Japelj started translating religious texts into Slovene.
He rejected the innovations of the Franciscan monk Marko Pohlin, and returned to the language of 16th-century Slovene Protestants, especially Jurij Dalmatin and Adam Bohorič.
Together with Blaž Kumerdej, he began a new translation of the Bible in Slovene, based on Jurij Dalmatin's translation from the 1580s.
In 1807, he started compiling a grammar of Slovene, which, however, remained unfinished.
He also translated several poems by Metastasio, Kleist, Racine, Hagedorn, and Pope into Slovene.
He also wrote some original poems in a mixture of Classicism, Roccoco, and Sentimentalism.
In 1799, Japelj became the director of the seminary in Klagenfurt, where he also covered other positions in the ecclesiastical and civil administration.
He died in Klagenfurt in 1807, shortly after being appointed bishop of Trieste.
Carlo Grossi (c. 1634 14 May 1688) was an Italian composer.
He is believed to have been the first composer to use the term "divertimento", in his 1681 composition Il divertimento de' grandi musiche da camera, ò per servizio di tavola.
He was the organist at the church of SS.
He is also known for setting Hebrew religious texts to recitative in the style of Claudio Monteverdi, such as in his Cantata Ebraica in Dialogo.
Grossi died in 1688 at Venice.
1681 : Cantata ebraica in dialogo (Modena) Concerti eccleseastici Op.
1 (1657) Sonatas Op.
3 Moderne Melodie: a voce sola : con due, trè, quattro, e cinque stromenti, e partitura per l'organo op.
8 (Bologna, Giacomo Monti, 1676) Currite pastores con 5 stromenti Cantata ebraica in dialogo (Modena, 1681) Il divertimento di Grandi, musiche da camera ò per sevicio di tavola... Op.
9 (Antwerpen, 1681)
Book of Shadows is a 1998 memoir written by author Phyllis Curott.
When high-powered Manhattan lawyer Phyllis Curott began exploring witchcraft in a women's group in the 1970s, she discovered a spiritual movement that defied all stereotypes.
Encountering neither Satanic rites nor eccentric spinsters, she came to know a clandestine religion of the Goddess that had been forced into hiding over the course of history.
The Book of Shadows chronicles Curott's remarkable initiation into Wicca, her ascent to the position of Wiccan high priestess, and her efforts to reconcile her newfound spirituality with her struggles as a woman rising through the ranks of the corporate world.
Along the way, she relates the history of witchcraft.
She also shares many traditional Wiccan practices - such as casting a circle, drawing down the Goddess, and casting spells for health, prosperity, and love.
She explains all this from a feminist point of view.
The title Book of Shadows refers to the name used for a book that contains magical and religious texts in the religion of Wicca.
The Vamana Purana, ( , ), one of the eighteen Mahapuranas, a genre of Hindu religious texts, is devoted to the Vamana Avatar of Vishnu.
It has a eulogy praising both Vishnu and Shiva.
Dated between 450 CE - 900 CE.
The printed editions of this work has 96 chapters.
At the beginning (chapter 1), Narada asks Pulastya about the assumption of the Vamana avatar by Vishnu.
Chapters 34-42 give a detailed and exhaustive account of the tirthas, rivers and forests of Kurukshetra region.
There are ten characteristics evident in Vamana Purana (in fact, in all or most of the Puraans).
The Padma Purana categorizes Vamana Purana as a Rajas Purana (Purana which represents dimness and passion).
Sarga deals with the descriptions of the origin of this universe.
Visarg enlightens us as to how a living thing transforms itself from one species to another.
Sthaan, Poshan, Uti and Vritti deal with the descriptions of various means which are employed by a man for his survival.
Raksha describes about the various incarnations of Lord Vishnu which he takes for the protection of the humankind.
Manvantara deals with the complete description of the history of the whole Manvantara period.
Vansh describe about the lineage of all the kings including Lord Brahma.
Upaashraya enlightens us on the real meaning of Brahma.
Yajurvedi: The word denotes one of the two subcastes of Deshastha Brahmin of Maharashtra and Karnataka.
The other subcaste is Rigvedi.
The word Yajurvedi is derived from Yajurveda, one of the four holy Veda (religious texts) of Hindus.
The Yajurvedis are further divided into Shukla & Krishna yajurvedi, the former being mooted by Rishi Yajnyavalkya.
In Maharashtra most Shukla Yajurvedis are from the Madhayandin Shakha and others from Kanav.
The Madhyandin Yajurvedis arrived in the Nashik district of Maharashtra from Gujrat about 500 years ago.
However, this conflicts with the fact that even in 1200 AD (the time of Dnyaneshwar), Marathi Yajurvedi Brahmins like Dnyaneshwar were there already.
So, the Gazzettes collected by British seem to be misleading.
One wing of Yajurvedi brahmin settled in eastern part of modern Uttar Pradesh that is popurlarily known as Purvanchal .T There is huge population of Yajurvedis Brahmin in districts of Kushinagar(Padrauna),Deoria,Gorakhpur,Maharajganj of Uttar Pradesh .T Their Surnames include Dubey,Mishr,Upadhaya,Pathak,Choubey,Shukla,Tiwary,Malviya.Founder of BHU and Bharat Ratna Madan Mohan Malviya is famous of Yajurvedi Brahmins of this region.
The Galik script ( , Ali-Gali üseg) is an extension to the traditional Mongolian script.
It was created in 1587 by the translator and scholar Ayuush Güüsh ( ), inspired by the third Dalai Lama, Sonam Gyatso.
He added extra characters for transcribing Tibetan and Sanskrit terms when translating religious texts, and later also from Chinese.
Some of those characters are still in use today for writing foreign names.
Some authors (particularly historic ones like Isaac Taylor in his The Alphabet: an account of the origin and development of letters, 1883) fail to distinguish between the Galik and standard Mongolian alphabets.
Donald Macleod Matheson (occasionally only MacLeod Matheson) CBE (1896–1979) was Secretary to the National Trust from 1934 to 1945.
Active within the Traditionalist School as a translator and author, he founded The Matheson Trust for the study of comparative religion.
Born into an aristocratic Scottish family, Matheson was educated at Balliol College, Oxford.
After serving in the artillery during World War I, he held the post of Secretary to the National Trust, which with the years earned him an appointment as CBE in 1945.
Matheson was a close friend of G. E. H. Palmer (author and translator of the Eastern Orthodox text, the Philokalia).
He worked as a Director for John Smedley until his retirement in 1967.
Matheson maintained associations with Perennialist authors for many years, and his translations of French works by Schuon and Burckhardt were published in the UK, India and Pakistan.
Some of his translations were made in collaboration with Buddhist scholar Marco Pallis.
Dross is a mass of solid impurities floating on a molten metal or dispersed in the metal, such as in wrought iron.
It forms on the surface of low-melting-point metals such as tin, lead, zinc or aluminium or alloys by oxidation of the metal(s).
With wrought iron, hammering and later rolling removed some dross.
With tin and lead the dross can be removed by adding sodium hydroxide pellets, which dissolve the oxides and form a slag.
If floating, dross can also be skimmed off.
Dross, as a solid, is distinguished from slag, which is a liquid.
Dross product is not entirely waste material; for example, aluminium dross can be recycled and is used in secondary steelmaking for slag deoxidation.
The term dross derives from the Old English word dros, meaning the scum produced when smelting metals.
By the 15th century it had come to refer to rubbish in general.
Dregs, and the geological term druse are also thought to be etymologically related.
Metallurgical dross is referenced as a metaphor for worthless material in the Bible and in other religious texts.
Divine inspiration is the concept of a supernatural force, typically a deity, causing a person or people to experience a creative desire.
Divine inspiration has been a commonly reported aspect of many religions, for thousands of years.
Divine inspiration is often closely tied to the concept of revelation, the belief in information being revealed or disclosed through communication with a deity or other supernatural entity or entities.
Besides ancient mythology, the religious texts of traditions including Hinduism, Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Mormonism, and the Bahá'í Faith are all claimed to be divinely inspired to some degree.
Some religions, however, reject divine inspiration as a guiding force.
It was described by Socrates as a form of madness (although not necessarily a bad form), and was a recurrent theme in the writings of Plato.
Divine inspiration is described in a number of forms, including epiphany, the sudden realization or comprehension of the essence or meaning of something, possibly from an internal prompting by a deity; theophany, an appearance of a deity to man; and hierophany, a manifestation of the sacred.
The Varaha Purana ( , ) is one of the major eighteen Mahapuranas, a genre of Hindu religious texts.
It describes in detail about the Varaha incarnation (Avatar) of Vishnu, and narrates about the rescue of the Prithvi.
The Padma Purana categorizes Varaha Purana as a Sattva Purana (Purana which represents goodness and purity).
The printed editions of this work has 217 or 218 adhyāyas (chapters).
According to the Narada Purana, this text is divided into two parts: purvabhaga and uttarabhaga.
While the contents of the purvabhaga almost correspond to the extant text, the uttarabhaga, as described in the Narada Purana, where the main interlocutor is sage Pulastya is not found in the text.
According to R. C. Hazra, a modern scholar, the extant text has four distinct sections, differing in interlocutors and general characteristics.
In the first section (chapters 1 to 112), Suta is the narrator and Varaha and Prithvi are the interlocutors.
In the second section (chapters 113 to 192), Suta narrates what was told by Prithvi to Sanatkumara about the dialogue between Varaha and herself.
In the third section (chapters 193 to 212), Suta describes the conversation between the king Janamejaya and the sage Vaishampayana.
This section is also known as the Dharma Samhita.
In the final section (chapters 213 to end), Suta narrates the conversation between Brahma and Sanatkumara.
Thai Poosam Kavady is a Hindu religious festival dedicated to Hindu deity Lord Murugan that is celebrated by Tamil people in South Africa.
Kavady translates in Tamil language as a pole slung across the shoulder to evenly distribute the weight of whatever is being carried, usually in bundles on either ends of the pole.
The carrying of kavady symbolizes the carrying of one’s burden and then resting it at the feet of the Lord.
Sambuddhatva jayanthi, also known as Sambuddha jayanthi, is a religious festival in relation with the Vesak.
In the Buddhist world it is celebrated in several Theravada countries including Sri Lanka, Nepal and in Buddhist communities of other countries.
This auspicious day is hugely celebrated in many parts of the world, predominately Lumbini, Nepal - the birthplace of Gautam Buddha.
Buddha's Enlightenment is highlighted and teachings of Buddha preserved in pali canon become more popular in this period among Buddhists who follow the Theravada.
The Festival of Saint Agatha is the most important religious festival of Catania, Sicily.
It commemorates the life of what is the city's patron saint, Agatha of Sicily.
It takes place annually from 3 to 5 February and on 17 August.
The earlier dates commemorate the martyrdom of the Catanaian saint, while the latter date celebrates the return to Catania of her remains, after these had been transferred to Constantinople by the Byzantine general George Maniaces as war booty, having then remained there for 86 years.
Theology of culture is a branch of theology that studies culture and cultural phenomenas.
It lies close to philosophy of culture, but has focus more on existentialism and spiritualism.
Paul Tillich was the first theologian who wrote about the theology of culture.
He discussed about making difference between the sacred and the secular.
Nowadays, the theology of culture also deals with cultural differences between religions and thus shares many features with the theology of religions.
Sang Hyun Lee (born 1938) is the Kyung-Chik Han Professor of Systematic Theology at Princeton Theological Seminary, and director of the institution’s Program for Asian American Theology and Ministry.
He specializes in systematic theology, Asian American theology, Jonathan Edwards, and God and the problem of evil.
He holds a Bachelor of Sacred Theology from Harvard Divinity School and a Ph.D. from Harvard University.
Duane Stephen Long, also known as D. Stephen Long, (PhD Duke University) is Professor of Systematic Theology at Marquette University who specializes in systematic theology, Christian ethics, and political theology.
His books include The Divine Economy: Theology and Market, which details a Christian approach to economics based in the thought of Radical Orthodoxy, The Goodness of God: Theology, Church and Social Order and Christian Ethics: A Very Short Introduction.
Alison L. Boden is the Dean of Religious Life and the Dean of the Chapel at Princeton University.
She received an A.B.
from Vassar, an M.Div.
from Union Theological Seminary, and a Ph.D. from the University of Bradford (UK).
Her writing and teaching interests have focused on such topics as human rights and religion, religion and violence, religion in the academy, and a variety of social justice issues.
She is the author of Women's Rights and Religious Practice and is an ordained minister in the United Church of Christ.
The Human Christ: The Search For The Historical Jesus was written by Charlotte Allen and published in 1998.
Charlotte Allen discusses how the perception of Christ has evolved throughout history, touching upon the time of Christ.
The narrative goes on to document how the early Christians lived in strife with Jews and Pagans.
The book later leads to a demonstration of how Sir Isaac Newton changed society and caused a division in religious practice as science and logic ignited the minds of academics.
In Ancient Roman religious practice, Dialia were sacred rites to Jupiter, performed by the Flamen Dialis.
It was not, however, of such necessity that the Dialia were to be performed by the Flamen Dialis; others might also have officiated.
We find in the Annals of Tacitus, that if he were sick, or detained by any other public employ, the pontifices took his place.<
The Chepman and Myllar Press was the first printing press to be established in Scotland.
The press was founded in 1508 in Edinburgh by Walter Chepman and Androw Myllar, both burgesses of the Scottish capital.
The two partners operated under a charter of King James IV issued in 1507 which gave them a monopoly in printed books within Scotland.
Very few products of the press are preserved today.
Those that have survived largely intact are nine chapbooks of vernacular literature known collectively as The Chepman and Myllar Prints and a Latin religious text known as The Aberdeen Breviary.
Fragments of two other publications also exist.
These were editions of The Wallace and The Buke of the Howlat.
The press seems to have had a brief existence.
The earliest surviving example of its work dates to 1508 and the latest to 1510.
Chepman and Myllar's press is also referred to as The Southgait Press.
Johannes Gutenberg developed printing with moveable type in Germany in the decade after 1440.
The new technology spread rapidly.
Scots began to commission the printing of books in other countries.
France, with its strong diplomatic and intellectual connection to Scotland, was favoured.
King James IV authorised the creation of a press in a proclamation of September 1507.
He charged his "beloved servants" Chepman and Myllar to "acquire and bring home a press with all accessories and skilled men required to use it".
The King intended the press to publish books of laws, acts of parliament, histories and religious texts.
The King would determine "competetive prices" for the books.
Chepman and Myllar were awarded a monopoly in print within Scotland.
The commissioning of imported printed books would be prohibited.
The charter then specifies a key purpose for the press- The production of liturgical books with a distinctive Scottish character.
These were intended to replace the service books of the English Use of Salisbury which was the rite commonly used throughout Scotland at the time.
Eventually the importation of books of the English rite would be outlawed.
The Aberdeen Breviary, compiled by the King's "traist counsalar" Bishop William Elphinstone of Aberdeen, is apparently an example of this policy.
Androw Myllar was a bookseller who had supplied volumes to the King.
He had also published books, printed at Rouen in 1505 and 1506.
As such, he can be assumed to have had some knowledge of printing technology.
Walter Chepman was a prosperous textile merchant who had supplied goods to the Crown and also carried out clerical duties at the Royal Court.
It might be supposed that he provided the bulk of the capital for the enterprise.
It is not known where or when Chepman and Myllar acquired their printing press and staff, but in the months following the Royal charter, they established themselves in the Southgait of Edinburgh, now known as The Cowgate.
Their earliest surviving publication dates to 4 April 1508.
It not known when the press closed, but the latest surviving copies of the Aberdeen Breviary date to 1510.
The Chepman and Myllar Prints are nine of Chepman and Myllar's chapbooks bound into a single volume alongside two other pamphlets from Scotland in the sixteenth century.
This volume was acquired by the Advocates' Library of Edinburgh and is now held in the National Library of Scotland.
The volume contains the following texts of Chepman and Myllar's press, all written in vernacular, either Scots or English.
The same volume contains two other Scottish booklets from the Sixteenth Century.
The prints have a page height of approximately 15&nbsp;cm and include the woodcut devices of Myllar and Chepman.
The National Library of Scotland speculates that these chapbooks may have been test-pieces for the press.
Their sale would also have provided a source of income for the new enterprise.
The Aberdeen Breviary or "Brevarium Aberdonense" is the largest surviving product of Chepman and Myllar's press.
Produced between 1509 and 1510, it is a substantial Latin text consisting of two volumes printed in black and red.
Breviaries are handbooks intended to guide priests in conducting Catholic religious ceremonies.
They include a psalter and prayers to mark particular festivals and saints' days.
The content of breviaries varied across Catholic Europe, with the English Salisbury or Sarum Rite dominant throughout the British Isles.
The Breviary was compiled by Bishop William Elphinstone of Aberdeen and aimed to give the rituals of the Scottish Church a character distinctive from that in England and its dependencies.
More than seventy of the saints honoured by it are identified with Scotland.
As such, it forms part of the policy set out in the charter which established the press; Copies of the Aberdeen Breviary survive, in varying degrees of completeness, at Edinburgh University, Aberdeen University, The National Library of Scotland, The British Library and a private collection.
Fragmentary remains of two further publications survive whose typeface matches that of the Chepman and Myllar press.
These were Blind Harry's The Wallace and Holland's The Buke of the Howlat.
The fragments of 'The Wallace' are preserved at Glasgow's Mitchell Library and Cambridge University Library.
The fragment of 'The Howlat' is kept at Cambridge.
The Brihaddharma Purana ( , ) is a Hindu religious text, which classified itself (I.25.26) as the last of the 18 Upapuranas.
The extant text comprises three khaņḑas (parts): pūrvakhaņḑa, madhyakhaņḑa and uttarakhaņḑa.
On the basis of its usage of Sanskrit words with unusual meaning and Sanskrit proverbs popular in Bengal, a number of modern scholars believe that this text was written in Bengal.
According to R. C. Hazra, a modern scholar, this text was composed in the second half of the 13th century.
He classified it as a non-sectarian Upapurana.
The first printed edition of this text was published by The Asiatic Society, Calcutta (1888–97), as a part of their Bibliotheca Indica series.
It was edited by Haraprasad Shastri.
In 1894, the Vangavasi Press, Calcutta published another edition of this text along with a Bengali translation by Panchanan Tarkaratna, who edited it.
In 1915, a free and abridged English translation by Syama Charan Banerji was published from Lucknow by the Indian Commercial Press as the first volume of its Rambles in Scripture Land series.
The pūrvakhaņḑa and madhyakhaņḑa of both the Asiatic Society and the Vangavasi edition have 30 chapters.
While the uttarakhaņḑa of the Asiatic Society edition comprises 14 chapters, the Vangavasi edition comprises 21 chapters and R. C. Hazra considers these additional 7 chapters (15-21) as the essential part of the text.
The pūrvakhaņḑa begins at the Naimisha Forest, with Suta reporting to the sages assembled there about Vyasa's discourse to Jabali on dharma and its constituent parts: satya, daya, shanti and ahimsa.
In answer to Jabali's next question, Vyasa advises him about the gurus (teachers) in general and particularly the gurus occupying the highest position, one's parents.
He illustrated his views on one's duty to his parents with a narrative of hunter Tuladhara and his advice to brahmin Kritabodha.
In chapters 5-30, Vyasa, in answer to another question of Jabali, describes the tirthas (sacred places), reporting it as a conversation between goddess Rudrani and her two associates, Jaya and Vijaya.
The description starts with a song of praise to Ganga and it includes the origin and sanctity of tulasi (Ocimum tenuiflorum) plant and the bilva (Aegle marmelos) tree.
It also comprises descriptions on kalatirthas (auspicious times), which include auspicious times for Devi worship and studying religious texts.
The madhyakhaņḑa begins with Jabali's request for further information about Ganga.
Vyasa answers his question in the form of a conversation between sage Śuka and his disciple Jaimini.
The first chapter describes the creation as the yoga (union) of Brahma and the prakriti of the three guṇas of Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva.
The second chapter has a brief description about Daksha and his daughter Sati.
It is followed by a detailed narrative of Daksha, Shiva and Sati from the chapter 3 onwards, which ends in selection of Kamarupa as his abode by Shiva after Sati's yoni fell there, when her body was cut to pieces by Vishnu.
In chapter 11, Sati appears before Shiva, who was in a meeting with Brahma and Vishnu and predicts that she will reincarnate as Ganga and Uma.
Chapters 12-28 deal with the narratives of Ganga from her birth as daughter of Himalaya and Mena.
Chapter 14 describes about Narayana's instruction of music to sage Narada as a related story.
These narratives related to Ganga are briefly interrupted in chapter 23, which describes the birth of Uma as the second daughter of Himalaya and Mena.
Chapter 29 describes Manus and manvantaras and the kings belonging to solar and lunar dynasties.
The last chapter (chapter 30) narrates the story of birth of Ganesha and his acquiring the head of an elephant.
The uttarakhaņḑa starts with the discussion about dharma.
A general discussion on dharma followed by the specific dharmas to be followed by the people belonging to four varnas during their various stages of life (ashramas).
This discussion includes a passage supporting the practice of Sati which mentions that it is the obligation of a widow to follow her husband in death (Chapter 8, 8-10).
The following chapters deal with a number of vratas, hymns to the Navagraha deities, the four yugas and the narrative of Vena which includes his creation of 36 mixed castes, whose members were later assigned specific trades by the Brahmins during the reign of Vena's son Prithu.
The chapters 15-21, which are only found in the Vangavasi edition describes the story of Krishna's birth and the role played by Devi in it.
They also comprise a description of Kali Yuga.
The text ends with a eulogy of the Purana, describing it as a Vaishnava, Shaiva and Shakta shastra (21.5).
The Beatitudes are eight blessings recounted in the Sermon on the Mount in the Gospel of Matthew.
Each is a proverb-like proclamation, without narrative, "cryptic, precise, and full of meaning.
Each one includes a topic that forms a major biblical theme".
Four of the blessings also appear in the Sermon on the Plain in the Gospel of Luke, followed by four woes which mirror the blessings.
The term beatitude comes from the Latin noun beātitūdō which means "happiness".
In the Vulgate (Latin), the book of Matthew titles this section Beatitudines, and "Beatitudes" was anglicized from that term.
Each Beatitude consists of two phrases: the condition and the result.
In almost every case the condition is from familiar Old Testament context, but Jesus teaches a new interpretation.
Together, the Beatitudes present a new set of Christian ideals that focus on a spirit of love and humility different in orientation than the usual force and exaction taken.
They echo the highest ideals of the teachings of Jesus on mercy, spirituality, and compassion.
While opinions may vary as to exactly how many distinct statements into which the Beatitudes should be divided (ranging from eight to ten), most scholars consider them to be only eight.
These eight of Matthew follow a simple pattern: Jesus names a group of people normally thought to be unfortunate and pronounces them blessed.
The eight Beatitudes in Matthew 5:3–12 during the Sermon on the Mount.
In verses , the eight Beatitudes are followed by what is often viewed as a commentary—a further clarification of the eighth one with specific application being made to the disciples.
Instead of using the third-person plural "they", Jesus changes to second-person "you": R. T. France considers verses 11 and 12 to be based on .
The Beatitudes unique to Matthew are the meek, the merciful, the pure of heart, and the peacemakers.
The other four have similar entries in Luke, but are followed almost immediately by "four woes".
("Rejoice ye in that day, and leap for joy: for, behold, your reward is great in heaven: for in the like manner did their fathers unto the prophets.")
appears to parallel the text in , which reads, "Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me.
Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you".
The four woes that follow in Luke 6:24–26 The fourth "woe" in verse 26 may be parallel to the commentary in .
These woes are distinct from the Seven Woes of the Pharisees which appear later in .
Each Beatitude consists of two phrases: the condition and the result.
In almost all cases the phrases used are familiar from an Old Testament context, but in the Sermon on the Mount Jesus elevates them to new levels and teachings.
Together, the Beatitudes present a new set of ideals that focus on love and humility rather than force and exaction.
They echo the highest ideals of Jesus' teachings on spirituality and compassion.
The term "the meek" would be familiar in the Old Testament, e.g., as in Psalms 37:11.
Although the Beatitude concerning the meek has been much praised even by some non-Christians such as Mahatma Gandhi, some view the admonition to meekness skeptically.
Friedrich Nietzsche in On the Genealogy of Morals considered the verse to be embodying what he perceived as a slave morality.
In Christian teachings, the Works of Mercy, which have corporal and spiritual components, have resonated with the theme of the Beatitude for mercy.
These teachings emphasize that these acts of mercy provide both temporal and spiritual benefits.
The theme of mercy has continued in devotions such as the Divine Mercy in the 20th century.
The term peacemakers has traditionally been interpreted to mean not only those who live in peace with others, but also those who do their best to promote friendship among mankind and between God and man.
St. Gregory of Nyssa interpreted it as "Godly work", which was an imitation of God's love of man.
John Wesley said the peacemakers 'endeavour to calm the stormy spirits of men, to quiet their turbulent passions, to soften the minds of contending parties, and, if possible, reconcile them to each other.
They use all innocent arts, and employ all their strength, all the talents which God has given them, as well to preserve peace where it is, as to restore it where it is not.'
In the Book of Mormon a religious text of Mormonism, Jesus gives a sermon to a group of indigenous Americans including statements very similar to Matthew 6 and evidently derived therefrom: The Bahá'í Lawḥ-i-Aqdas contains the statement: The Qur'an quotes the Bible only in Q:21:105 which resembles referred to in ; but the Qur'an uses "righteous" rather than "meek".
The Qur'an (e.g., "say the word of humility and enter the gate of paradise") and some Hadith (e.g., "My mercy exceeds my anger") contain some passages with somewhat similar tone, but distinct phraseology, from the Beatitudes.
The Bhagavad Gita and the traditional writings of Buddhism (e.g., some of the Mangala Sutta) have been interpreted as including teachings whose intentions resemble some of the messages of Beatitudes (e.g., humility and absence of ego), although their wording is not the same.
Dr Dion Angus Forster (born 14 January 1972) is an ordained Minister of the Methodist Church of Southern Africa.
He is a theologian [1] and author.
He was formerly the Dean of the Seminary of the Methodist Church of Southern Africa, John Wesley College.
Dr Forster is the International Chairman of the 'EXPOSED - shining a light on corruption' campaign (a coalition of the World Evangelical Alliance, the Salvation Army, the International Bible Societies, Micah Challenge and Unashamedly Ethical).
He teaches Systematic Theology and Ethics, with a focus on Public Theology in the Faculty of Theology at Stellenbosch University.
In 2006 he completed a Doctorate in Theology (neuroscience, identity and theology) at the University of South Africa (UNISA).
He also holds the degrees of Master of Theology (2001), and Bachelor of Theology with Honours (Honours degree) (1997), from Rhodes University.
He is currently engaged in Post Doctoral studies at Radboud University Nijmegen, working towards a second PhD with a focus on the concepts of forgiveness and reconciliation in South Africa.
He has taught Systematic Theology, New Testament and Ethics at John Wesley College, Ethics and Systematic Theology at the University of South Africa (UNISA), and New Testament at the University of Pretoria.
He is currently on the full time faculty of Stellenbosch University where he teaches Systematic Theology, Ethics and Public Theology.
Dion Forster is a member of the Oxford Institute of Methodist Theological Studies, the Theological Society of South Africa and the South Africa Science and Religion Forum.
He has lectured at various institutions across the world
A Scientific Theology is a set of three books by Alister McGrath that explores the parallels between the working assumptions and methods of Christian theology and those of the natural sciences.
Scientific Theology is also the "running title" of the project which gave rise to the trilogy.
The work is preceded by three volumes that McGrath describes as "landmarks" in the development of his scientific theology: The Genesis of Doctrine: A Study in the Foundations of Doctrinal Criticism, The Foundations of Dialogue in Science and Religion and Thomas F. Torrance: An Intellectual Biography.
The trilogy was later summarised in The Science of God.
McGrath is working on a "scientific dogmatics" which will deal with the content of Christian theology following the method developed in the trilogy.
Since at least the time of the 2nd century apologists Christian theology has sought to relate itself to major intellectual trends.
In earlier periods this meant engagement with Platonism and Aristotelianism.
But as these philosophical systems waned under the increasing influence of natural philosophy (later "science") so Christian theology increasingly tended to focus on engagement with the natural sciences.
This engagement would eventually lead to the idea that Christian Theology itself should be "scientific" and by the earlier part of the 20th century calls were being made for a "scientific theology."
This call has been answered in various ways.
These various approaches to "scientific theology" may be loosely categorised as "methodological" or "doctrinal" depending upon their primary focus.
These concerns, however, are by no means mutually exclusive.
A "methodological" approach is concerned with practicing theology in a "scientific" manner and focuses on clearly articulating the assumptions, methods, and related thought-forms to be taken into account in the construction of dogmatic formulations.
A "doctrinal" approach is concerned with the inter-relationship of scientific and doctrinal content and focuses on formulating Christian theology against a framework of specific scientific theorems.
By a “scientific theology” McGrath does not mean an attempt to reconcile particular Christian beliefs with particular scientific theorems.
Such efforts are regarded by him as pointless because they become outdated with scientific progress.
Rather, McGrath seeks to draw upon the proven assumptions and methods of the natural sciences in order to inform the practice of Christian theology.
Such an approach is grounded in the fundamental belief that Christian theology seeks to describe the same God who (in whatever way) created the natural order which the natural sciences seek to describe.
The assumption is that a theological investigation of reality can be informed by the approach taken in a scientific investigation of reality.
It is critical to distinguish levels of reality so that each level is investigated according to its appropriate methods.
On this basis, the reality of God and the contingent reality of the created order are taken as distinct although still related levels of reality.
It is important to note that this is not regarded as a self-evident truth, but acknowledged to be a claim of Christian theology which is based in revelation.
It is the Christian understanding of revelation as disclosure of an objective reality that justifies, in McGrath's view, claims of a correspondence between the assumptions and methods of Christian theology and those of the natural sciences.
He argues that just as the natural sciences are an investigation of the objective reality of the natural order, so Christian theology is an investigation of the (revealed) objective reality of God.
Christian theology and the natural sciences, therefore, are both a response to reality and so must proceed a posteriori-that is from observations (i.e.
of revealed or natural data respectively) to dogmas/theorems.
Ideally, neither discipline confuses its theoretical constructs with the reality it seeks to describe.
Both should be critical of their dogmas/theorems and constantly put them to the test.
For Christian theology this means continually assessing Christian faith and practice against the revelation of God in Jesus Christ “the incarnate word.” In this work McGrath commits himself to an approach that seeks to avoid the use of contemporary views of religion as found in the work of the distinguished Ian Barbour and Arthur Peacocke, keeping instead to a classic Christian theological formulation (i.e., traditional credal Christian orthodoxy), which is a position closer to John Polkinghorne according to McGrath.
Also when relating Christianity and science, the three volumes stress the provisionality of scientific understanding, findings, and conclusions.
This sort of provisionality makes relating Christianity to science very different from relating Christianity to fairly settled views such as Platonism and Aristotelianism.
Commenting that "[w]riting on method is a bit like clearing your throat before beginning a lecture.
You can only go on so long before the audience starts to get a little restless."
McGrath makes clear that the methodological concerns of A Scientific Theology constitute an extensive preliminary to the development of a systematic theology constructed according to the trilogy's methodological grounds.
A Scientific Theology is intended by McGrath to be ecumenical in approach and valuable to Catholic, Orthodox, Protestant and evangelical readers.
Due to both McGrath's creedal commitments, A Scientific Theology is "a systematic work of theology".
Due precisely to the scope of the work, McGrath felt led to prepare a short volume The Science of God which "is designed to introduce the distinctive themes and emphasis of this scientific theology to a wider readership" In intent, the trilogy is a very ambitious project which seeks to lay a methodological groundwork for further theological reflection.
In execution, McGrath himself acknowledges that it falls somewhat short of its goal.
Writing in the conclusion to the third volume he explains; The Science of God is a small book prepared by McGrath to introduce the themes and emphases of A Scientific Theology to a wider readership.
Four considerations guided its preparation; Fleming, noting the impact of McGrath's project, describes The Science of God as "an accessible place to begin following what is likely to become one of the most influential areas in the science-religion dialogue."
Reviews of this work have appeared in The Journal of Religion, Journal of the American Academy of Religion, and Isis amongst others.
Willem B. Drees, Leiden University, The Netherlands, offered a lengthy review of Volume 1: Nature in which he followed a summary of the work with a solid critique.
There are three points at which Drees critiques McGrath throughout the review; Drees concludes; “McGrath’s book is rich in historical detail and in footnotes (I wish they had been covered by the index as well) and very outspoken in its judgments … [but] I find the book falling short in the accuracy with which it deals with other positions and with complex issues such as the philosophical arguments pro and contra scientific realism...and theological realism.” Larry L. Rasmussen, Reinhold Niebuhr Emeritus Professor of Social Ethics, Union Theological Seminary, considered A Scientific Theology: Volume 1, Nature to be “immensely learned and instructive.” After giving a brief summary of the volume’s themes and contents he concludes that McGrath is "in full command of the English and German language sources within what he calls 'the western intellectual community.'"
However, Rasmussen finds “unsettling” McGrath's failure to move outside that community to engage with recent Christian sources – feminist and Two-Thirds World in particular – which in recent decades have challenged both McGrath’s streams of theology, and the epistemologies and philosophy of science.
Thus, although McGrath sees his project as “a public theology,” Rasmussen considers that this “does not mean engagement with voices that dissent from his canon.” He concludes: “Given the ferment in both theology and science...this is an unfortunate omission in an otherwise learned undertaking.” Gregory Snyder in the Anglican Theological Review considered Volume 1 "a magisterial historical, philosophical, theological, and biblical treatise on "nature."
By its end, I felt as if I had completed a seminary course in natural theology.
It is well written, erudite, at times even provocative, and humorous.
However, it is not a book for the faint of heart.
It is a book to consume slowly and savor in one's study, notepad in hand."
Sino-Christian Theology ( or ), literally meaning "Christian theology in the Chinese language."
It is a theological movement in Mainland China and Hong Kong.
There are generally recognized two senses to the term Sino-Christian Theology.
In the broad sense, it belongs to the tradition of indigenous theology which stretches as early as the works during the time of the Jesuit China missions, until the present day.
However, these indigenizing efforts are often critiqued for a lacking in their assessments of traditional Chinese culture, particularly as found in Confucianism.
In the narrow sense of the term, Sino-Christian Theology is associated with individuals like Liu Xiaofeng and He Guanghu who have challenged the indigenizing approach and have proposed the greater need to articulate a critically reflective theology using the Chinese language.
In recent years, it has been observed that there has perhaps been the growth of a younger generation of scholars in Sino-Christian Theology.
While the earlier generation included so-called "cultural Christians" ( ) who often used methodologies within the humanities and social sciences, the younger generation includes individuals who identify themselves as “Christian Scholars” ( ) with a greater commitment to the Christian faith and believe the use of the human sciences is inadequate for articulating Christian theology.
Roland Faber (born 1960) is an author and Kilsby Family/John B. Cobb, Jr., Professor of Process Studies at Claremont School of Theology and Professor of Religion and Philosophy at Claremont Graduate University.
He is Executive Co-Director of the Center for Process Studies, Executive Director of the Whitehead Research Project in Claremont, California, and Editor of the Contemporary Whitehead Studies series.
Faber received a PhD in systematic theology from the University of Vienna in 1992.
In 1998, he was appointed assistant professor at the Institute for Dogmatic Theology in Vienna, Austria.
In 2005, he was received a joint appointment as professor of process theology at Claremont School of Theology and professor of religion at Claremont Graduate University.
Faber has been influential in the ongoing development of process philosophy and theology through organizing annual conferences since 2007 in Claremont.
His own research focuses on constructive and deconstructive theology, postmodern and process philosophy, poststructuralism and mysticism, theopoetics and eco-process theology and interreligious studies (particularly transreligious discourse).
Oswald Bayer ( ; born September 30, 1939) is a German Lutheran theologian, and is Professor Emeritus of Systematic Theology at the Evangelical Theological Faculty of the Eberhard Karls University of Tübingen, Germany.
The author of several books in German, he is also an ordained pastor of the Evangelical-Lutheran Church in Württemberg and president of the senate of the Luther Academy in Ratzeburg.
Although Bayer is a major contemporary Lutheran theologian, so far little of his work has been translated from German into English.
Oswald Bayer studied Protestant theology and philosophy in Tübingen, Bonn and Rome, received his doctorate in 1968 and habilitation in 1970 on the concept of promissio (promise) in the theology of the young Luther.
His doctoral and postdoctoral work has been titled Promissio.
He has also written on the history of the turning point in Luther's Reformation theology.
Oswald Bayer taught from 1974 to 1979 as professor of Systematic Theology at the Ruhr University Bochum.
In 1979 he was appointed director of the Institute for Christian Social Ethics at the University of Tübingen.
In 1995 he moved to the chair of systematic theology.
Since 2005, Oswald Bayer has been Professor Emeritus of Systematic Theology at the University of Tübingen.
Oswald Bayer's theology is based on Luther's theology of word and promise which he uses to provide a critical engagement with modernity.
To this end Bayer builds on Hamann's critique of Kant and the enlightenment, but also includes the developments in linguistics of the 20th Century (for example, Paul Ricoeur, Ludwig Wittgenstein).
He has published numerous interpretations of Luther and Hamann.
The center of theology is the promise of God to man to which man responds in faith.
Faith is therefore always, to Oswald Bayer, a speech act, a spoken exchange between God and man.
The exemplary center of this exchange is the Divine Service, the source and aim of all theology.
Christian theology is therefore regarded as the interpretation of this speech act between the justifying God and the justified sinner.
For Bayer this is - in reference to Martin Luther - the object of theology (the subiectum theologiae).
A theology which interprets this word act, is itself always the hearer of the word of God.
Oswald Bayer utilises this systematic approach in the areas of hermeneutics, theory of science, sociology and ethics, as well as in his sermons.
The latter he makes available to a large audience as the Göttinger Predigten im Internet.
He uses his theology of the word pointedly against modern subjective theology in the tradition of Friedrich Daniel Ernst Schleiermacher, as it is represented at present in modified form for example by Bayer's Tübingen colleague Eilert Herms.
In addition, Bayer also enagages in depth with other contemporary theological and philosophical systems (such as Marxism).
A few of Bayer's books have been made available to the English-speaking world.
Bayer has also published numerous articles that have been translated into English.
Many of these have appeared in journals such as Lutheran Quarterly, Modern Theology, and others.
Literature by and about Oswald Bayer https://portal.d-nb.de/opac.htm?method=simpleSearch&query=Oswald+Bayer
Licentiate of Sacred Theology (S.T.L.)
is the second cycle of studies of a Faculty of Theology offered by pontifical universities or Ecclesiastical Faculties of sacred theology.
An Ecclesiastical Faculty offers three cycles of study: Baccalaureate or fundamentals, Licentiate or specialized, and the Doctorate.
The Licentiate is a graduate degree with canonical effects in the Roman Catholic Church.
STL is the abbreviation of the Latin, sacrae theologiae licentiatus, which translates as licentiate of sacred theology.
"The academic degrees conferred by an Ecclesiastical Faculty are: Baccalaureate, Licentiate, and Doctorate."
(Cf.
Apostolic Constitution Sapientia Christiana (SapC) OF Pope John Paul II, 47.1) The programme for a licentiate's degree is equivalent to a total of two years or four semesters of full-time study after receiving a college degree and the Bachelor of Sacred Theology degree [S.T.B.]
(SapC 72b).
The S.T.B., or first cycle, requires five years or ten semesters (SapC 72a). "
In this cycle the special disciplines are taught corresponding to the nature of the diverse specializations being undertaken.
Also seminars and practical exercises are conducted for the acquisition of the ability to do scientific research."
(SapC 72b) The licentiate program develops research skills and treats theological questions in greater depth.
Students may pursue the license as either a transitional or a terminal degree.
As a transitional degree, the S.T.L.
program introduces students to a more scientific study of theology in pursuing Doctoral studies. "
Nobody can be admitted to the doctorate unless first having obtained the licentiate."
As a terminal degree, the license prepares students to be teachers and resource persons.
A graduate of the S.T.L.
program is prepared to teach theology in a college, seminary, or university, to function as a chaplain to various professional groups, and to act as a theological resource for a diocese and diocesan agencies.
"The doctorate is the academic degree which enables one to teach in a Faculty and which is therefore required for this purpose, the licentiate is the academic degree which enables one to teach in a major seminary or equivalent school and which is therefore required for this purpose."
In several European countries, the master level degree is referred to as a license – from its original meaning as a "license to incept", i.e., that is, permission from the local bishop to actually take the degree of master or doctor, an event which took place through the ceremony of inception.
The usual prerequisites to become a Licentiate of Sacred Theology are that a candidate must have the Bachelor of Sacred Theology degree (S.T.B.)
or its relative equivalent, thus, e.g., a master of divinity degree (M.Div.)
from a Roman Catholic graduate school of theology.
In addition, it is understood that a candidate has completed at least the rough equivalent of a bachelor's degree in primarily scholastic philosophy (B.A.).
In order for a candidate to receive a license in sacred theology, he or she must engage in a two-year program of theological studies and propose an original thesis which contributes to the understanding of sacred theology.
The license in sacred theology is required for a person to teach sacred theology in a pontifical university (SapC 17) or major seminary (SapC 50.1).
The license is also the prerequisite to the doctorate (S.T.D.)
in the same field (SapC 49.2).
Notable faculties which offer the degree Licentiate of Sacred Theology include: The Catholic University of Louvain); the Pontifical University of Salamanca; The Catholic University of America; Pontifical John Paul II Institute; the University of Fribourg, Switzerland; the Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas (Angelicum); the Pontifical Gregorian University (Gregorianum); the Pontifical University of the Holy Cross (Santa Croce); the Pontifical Urban University (Urbanianum); St Patrick's College, Maynooth, Ireland; Regis College, University of Toronto; the Pontifical Lateran University (Lateranum); the University of Saint Mary of the Lake, Mundelein, Illinois, and the Jesuit School of Theology of Santa Clara University.
The Licentiate of Sacred Scripture is a similar degree in the field of biblical studies.
The Dinka people are an ethnic group inhabiting the Bahr el Ghazal region of the Nile basin, Jonglei and parts of southern Kordufan and Upper Nile regions.
The Dinkas are mainly agripastoral people, relying on cattle herding at riverside camps in the dry season and growing millet (awuou) and other varieties of grains (rap) in fixed settlements during the rainy season.
They number around 4.5 million people according to the 2008 Sudan census, constituting about 18% of the population of the entire country, and the largest ethnic tribe in South Sudan.
Dinka, or as they refer to themselves, Muonyjang (singular) and jieng (plural), one of the branches of the River Lake Nilotes (mainly sedentary agripastoral peoples of the Nile Valley and African Great Lakes region who speak Nilotic languages, including the Nuer and Luo).
Dinka are sometimes noted for their height.
With the Tutsi of Rwanda, they are believed to be the tallest people in Africa.
Roberts and Bainbridge reported the average height of in a sample of 52 Dinka Ageir and in 227 Dinka Ruweng measured in 1953–1954.
However, it seems the stature of today's Dinka males is lower, possibly as a consequence of undernutrition and conflicts.
An anthropometric survey of Dinka men, war refugees in Ethiopia, published in 1995 found a mean height of .
Other studies of comparative historical height data and nutrition place the Dinka as the tallest people in the world.
The Dinka people have no centralised political authority, instead comprising many independent but interlinked clans.
Certain of those clans traditionally provide ritual chiefs, known as the "masters of the fishing spear" or beny bith, who provide leadership for the entire people and appear to be at least in part hereditary.
Their language, called Dinka or "thuɔŋjäŋ" (thuongmuoingjang), is one of the Nilotic languages of the eastern Sudanic language family.
The name means "people" in the Dinka language.
It is written using the Latin alphabet with a few additions.
The Dinka tribe (or Jieng) has twenty six subdivisions: Gok, Agaar, Pakam, Nyang, Aliab, Ciec, Bor, Nyarweng, Hol, Twi/Twic, Twi/Twic Mayardit, Rek, Luac, Malual, Apuk, Aguok, Awan, Panaruau, Ruweng, Alor, Dongjol, Nyiel, Ager, Rut, Abialeng, and Ngok.
Malual is the largest of those groups, numbering over a million people.
The Dinka's migrations are determined by the local climate, their agro-pastoral lifestyle responding to the periodic flooding and dryness of the area in which they live.
They begin moving around May–June at the onset of the rainy season to their “permanent settlements” of mud and thatch housing above flood level, where they plant their crops of millet and other grain products.
These rainy season settlements usually contain other permanent structures such as cattle byres (luaak) and granaries.
During dry season (beginning about December–January), everyone except the aged, ill, and nursing mothers migrates to semi-permanent dwellings in the toic for cattle grazing.
The cultivation of sorghum, millet, and other crops begins in the highlands in the early rainy season and the harvest of crops begins when the rains are heavy in June–August.
Cattle are driven to the toic in September and November when the rainfall drops off; allowed to graze on harvested stalks of the crops.
The Dinkas' pastoral lifestyle is also reflected in their religious beliefs and practices.
Since the arrival of Abrahamic religions most revere one God, Nhialic, who speaks through spirits that take temporary possession of individuals in order to speak through them.
The sacrificing of oxen by the "masters of the fishing spear" is a central component of Dinka religious practice.
Age is an important factor in Dinka culture, with young men being inducted into adulthood through an initiation ordeal which includes marking the forehead with a sharp object.
Also during this ceremony they acquire a second cow-colour name.
The Dinka believe they derive religious power from nature and the world around them, rather than from a religious tome.
The Dinka's religions, beliefs and lifestyle have led to conflict with the Arab Muslim government in Khartoum.
The Sudan People's Liberation Army, led by late Dr. John Garang De Mabior, a Dinka, took arms against the government in 1983.
During the subsequent 21-year civil war, many thousands of Dinka, along with fellow non-Dinka southerners, were massacred by government forces.
The Dinka have also engaged in a separate civil war with the Nuer.
Sizable groups of Dinka refugees may be found in distant lands, including Jacksonville, Florida and Clarkston, a working-class suburb of Atlanta, Georgia and in the Midwest such as Omaha NE, Des Moines IA, Sioux Falls SD, and Kansas City MO, as well as Edmonton in Canada, and Melbourne and Sydney in Australia.
The experience of Dinka refugees was portrayed in the documentary movies Lost Boys of Sudan by Megan Mylan and Jon Shenk and God Grew Tired Of Us, Joan Hechts' book The Journey of the Lost Boys and the fictionalized autobiography of a Dinka refugee, Dave Eggers' What Is the What: The Autobiography of Valentino Achak Deng.
Other books on and by the Lost Boys include The Lost Boys of Sudan by Mark Bixler, God Grew Tired of Us by John Bul Dau, and They Poured Fire On Us From The Sky by Alephonsion Deng, Benson Deng, and Benjamin Ajak.
In 2004 the first volume of the graphic novel 'Echoes of the Lost Boys of Sudan' was released in Dallas, Texas, United States, chronicling in art and dialogue four lost boys' escapes from the destruction of their hometowns in South Sudan.
On November 15, 1991 the event known as the "Bor Massacre" commenced in South Sudan.
Forces led by the breakaway faction of Riek Machar deliberately killed an estimated 2,000 civilians in Dinka Bor villages and wounded several thousand more over the course of two months.
It is estimated a 100,000 people left the area following the attack.
Born: 05/11/1982 in Pacong payam of Rumbek East County village; just 12 miles aways from Rumbek central county.
Mayom, Before joining UN Radio Miraya in 2010, Mayom worked as a freelance journalist for websites Sudan Tribune and Gurtong and various newspapers including the Khartoum Monitor, The Citizen, Sudan Mirror and The Juba Post as well regular contributor to BBC focus on Africa and Network Africa.
Mayom is most popular and strong influential http://radio-miraya.org/presenters/manyang-mayom-correspondent-kuacjok-warrap-state/
Queer theology is a theological methodology defined 1) as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and intersex individuals "talking about God;" where this theology is done by and for LGBTQI individuals, by focusing on their specific needs.
2) talking about God in purposefully transgressive manners, especially in terms of social and cultural norms regarding gender and sexuality; where it seeks to unearth hidden voices or hidden perspectives that allows theology to be seen in a new light.
and 3) talking about God in a way that "challenges and deconstructs the natural binary categories of sexual and gender identity.
Based on the fact that it erases boundaries by being rooted on the perspective of queer theory that critiques sexual and gender identity. "
According to Patrick Cheng, Queer theology is brought by the philosophical perspective of Queer Theory.
Queer theology provides the reexamination of biblical text by providing a queer perspective of religion and spirituality.
It uses a queer approach to interpret Christian Theology and provides a space for individuals who identify as Lesbian, Gay, Transgender, Intersex and Queer to talk about religion.It is a transgressive approach to talk about God by challenging societal norms about sexuality and gender by arguing that sex categories, gender identity, and sexuality are not natural but are socially constructed.Queer theology is brought by the work of queer philosophers and sociologists such as Michel Foucault, Gayle Rubin, Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick, and Judith Butler.
According to “Queer Theology: Reclaiming Christianity for the LGBT Community Kelly Kraus” defines queer as an umbrella term for anyone with a marginalized sexual orientation or gender identity.
Queer theology is inclusive to individuals sexual and gender identity and allows the LGBTQ community to reclaim their space in Christianity.
Furthermore, According to Jennifer Purvis, queer signifies a range of variant genders and non heterosexual sexualities but a posture of resistance, questioning attitude, and a set of techniques and approaches.
For that reason, Queer theology calls on us to think beyond what may be known, disciplined and controlled and asks us to reembrace our queer cognizance.
Queer theory is defined as being attracted to many genders, not fitting culture norms about sexuality and or gender expression (such as the way you present your gender), being someone who is non heterosexual and challenges the status quo.
Social theorist Judith Butler notes the pejorative origins of the word "queer" when she writes, "[queer] derives its force precisely through the repeated invocation by which it has become linked to accusation, pathologization, insult."
Whatever negatives denotations "queer" has, it has been reclaimed by queer people to refute the intrinsic hostility of the term.
A "pro-feminist gay theology" was proposed by J. M. Clark and G. McNeil in 1992, and a "queer theology" by Robert Goss in Jesus acted up: A gay and lesbian manifesto (1993).
Queer theology begins with an assumption that gender non-conformity and gay and lesbian desire have always been present in human history, and were present in the Bible.
It is also a way of understanding the Bible as a source of stories about radical love.
In a paper read at the Conference of Modern Churchmen in 1967 titled “Jesus, the Revelation of God,” the Reverend Hugh William Montefiore offers a controversial interpretation of the early life of Jesus.
Jesus was not aware of his vocation as Messiah until approximately age thirty, Montefiore argues, and this vocation can therefore not explain the celibacy of Jesus.
Apart from the Essenes, celibacy was not a common practice in Jewish life.
Montefiore suggest we might need to look for a non-religious reason to explain the celibacy of Jesus: <blockquote>Men usually remain unmarried for three reasons: either because they cannot afford to marry or there are no girls to marry (neither of these factors need have deterred Jesus); or because it is inexpedient for them to marry in the light of their vocation (we have already ruled this out during the ‘hidden years’ of Jesus’ life); or because they are homosexual in nature, in as much as women hold no special attraction for them.
The homosexual explanation is one which me must not ignore.< </blockquote> Montefiore finds the explanation that Jesus was homosexual consistent with his identification with the poor and oppressed: <blockquote>All the synoptic gospels show Jesus in close relationship with the ‘outsiders’ and the unloved.
Publicans and sinners, prostitutes and criminals are among his acquaintances and companions.
If Jesus were homosexual in nature (and this is the true explanation of his celibate state) then this would be further evidence of God’s self-identification with those who are unacceptable to the upholders of ‘The Establishment’ and social conventions.< One proponent of queer theology is Marcella Althaus-Reid, who draws on Latin American liberation theology and interprets the Bible in a way that she sees as positive towards women, queer people, and sex.
She proposed a theology that centered marginalized people, including people in poverty and queer people.
For Althaus-Reid, theology ought to be connected to the body and lived experience.
She put it this way: One theme in the theology of her "The Queer God" (Routledge, 2003) is the holiness of the gay club, as she explores the intersection and essential non-contradiction of a strong, vibrant faith life and sexual desire.
An example of finding otherness and desire in Biblical texts is her reading of Jeremiah 2:23-25 from the Hebrew: Several theology schools offer courses in "Queer Theology" including Boston University School of Theology, Yale Divinity School, Vanderbilt Divinity School, Vancouver School of Theology, Pacific School of Religion, Chicago Theological Seminary and Harvard Divinity School.
Biblical theology for the most part is a Christian approach in which the theologian studies the Bible from the perspective of understanding the progressive history of God revealing Himself to humanity following the Fall and throughout the Old Testament and New Testament.
It particularly focuses on the epochs of the Old Testament in order to understand how each part of it ultimately points forward to fulfillment in the life mission of Jesus Christ.
Because scholars have tended to use the term in different ways, biblical theology has been notoriously difficult to define.
When Biblical theology seeks to understand a certain passage in the Bible in light of all of the biblical history leading up to it and later biblical references to that passage it is systematic, historical and dogmatic theology.
The Christian theologian asks questions of the text such as: Biblical theology seeks to put individual texts in their historical context since what came before them is the foundation on which they are laid and what comes after is what they anticipate.
Biblical theology is sometimes called the "history of special revelation" since it deals with the unfolding and expanding nature of revelation as history progresses through the Bible.
The motivation for this branch of theology comes from such passages as Luke 24.27: "And beginning with Moses and all the Prophets, [Jesus] explained to [the disciples] what was said in all the Scriptures concerning himself."
The assumption of this text seems to be that the Old Testament anticipated the messiah and that Jesus fulfilled those prophecies.
Thus, Biblical theologians suggest that, in order to understand the intended meaning of a Biblical text, one must understand what the text points toward or back to.
For instance, when reading about the sacrificial system in the Old Testament, Biblical theologians follow the trajectory the Bible lays out for that system (namely, pointing to Jesus as the true sacrifice), and likewise, when a New Testament text refers back to the Old Testament (for example, Jesus being the son of David and heir of his covenant), they try to understand that text against its proper, specified background.
Biblical theology can be compared with and is complemented by systematic theology, in that the former focuses on historical progression throughout the Bible while the latter focuses on thematic progression.
Systematic theology deals with a single topic in each place it is dealt with, whereas biblical theology seeks to follow the flow of "redemptive narrative" as it unfolds.
In this way, biblical theology reflects the diversity of the Bible, while systematic theology reflects its unity.
Though most speak of biblical theology as a particular method or emphasis within biblical studies, some scholars have also used the term in reference to its distinctive content.
In this understanding, biblical theology is limited to a collation and restatement of biblical data, without the logical analysis and dialectical correlation between texts that Systematic theology emphasizes.
The Christian concept of progressive revelation differs from the Islamic understanding in which successive revelations of God might annul former revelations, completely replacing them with a new truth.
The Christian model within biblical theology sees the concept of revelation as progressive; each new truth supports, expands, and stands upon former revelations of God's truth like brick laying.
This progressive revelation ultimately climaxes in Christ, and ends with the New Testament acts of the Apostles under the direction of the Holy Spirit awaiting the Second Coming of Jesus.
Though the distinction existed prior, the beginning of biblical theology as a significant and separate discipline can be traced to J. P. Gabler’s 1787 address upon his inauguration as professor at the University of Altdorf, when he used the term and called for a separate discipline apart from the dogmatic emphasis of the confessions.
This concern developed in the history of Israel's religion school, but the term eventually passed into its present usage.
Today, the discipline of biblical theology is primarily associated with viewpoints that also adhere to a belief in biblical inerrancy and biblical inspiration.
Consequently, the work of Walter Brueggemann, Rudolf Bultmann, and other such scholars who reject these beliefs is not dealt with in the discipline [?].
While it does engage with the work of philosophy and cultural and personal experience, it gives the Bible priority over each of these other lines of thought.
Within this framework, biblical theology has been mostly carried out as either New Testament theology or Old Testament theology.
The work of Gregory Beale, Kevin Vanhoozer, Geerhardus Vos (Biblical Theology: Old and New Testaments), Herman Nicolaas Ridderbos (The Coming of the Kingdom), Meredith Kline (Kingdom Prologue) Graeme Goldsworthy (According to Plan, Gospel and Kingdom), and Vaughan Roberts (God's Big Picture) have helped popularize this approach to the Bible.
They summarize the message of the Bible as being about "God's people in God's place under God's rule and blessing" (in Graeme Goldsworthy, Gospel and Kingdom, Paternoster, 1981).
Johann Baptist Metz (born 5 August 1928) is a German Catholic theologian.
He is Ordinary Professor of Fundamental Theology, Emeritus, at Westphalian Wilhelms University in Münster, Germany.
As a teenager, Metz had been recruited in to the German military towards the end of World War II in 1944.
Six months before the end of the war, he was captured by the Americans and sent to prisoner of war camps in Maryland and then Virginia.
Following the war, he moved back to Germany and studied at the University of Innsbruck, producing dissertations on the philosophy of Martin Heidegger and the theology of Thomas Aquinas under the supervision of Karl Rahner.
His experience in the war matches that of the German Calvinist theologian Jürgen Moltmann who would go on to write with Metz on political theology against a background of direct confrontation with Nazism.
A student of Karl Rahner, he broke with Rahner's transcendental theology in a turn to a theology rooted in praxis.
Metz is at the center of a school of political theology that strongly influenced Liberation Theology.
He is one of the most influential post-Vatican II German theologians.
His thought turns around fundamental attention to the suffering of others.
The key categories of his theology are memory, solidarity, and narrative.
Works in English include: The Emergent Church, Faith in History and Society, Poverty of Spirit, and Hope Against Hope.
Collected articles can be found in A Passion for God: The Mystical-Political Dimension of Christianity, translated by Matthew Ashley and in John K. Downey, ed., Love's Strategy: The Political Theology of Johann Baptist Metz.
Fundamental to Metz's work is the concept of "dangerous memory," which relates to anamnesis in the Greek New Testament, a term which is central to the theology of the Eucharist.
Metz speaks variously of "the dangerous memory of Jesus Christ," "the dangerous memory of freedom (in Jesus Christ)," the "dangerous memory of suffering," etc.
One of the motivating factors for this category is Metz's determination, as a Christian theologian from Germany, to rework the whole of Christian theology from the ground up in light of the disruptive experience of the Holocaust.
This need explains in part his break with Rahner, whose transcendental method appeals to historicity as a category but does not come to terms with actual history.
Metz has been in dialogue with progressive Marxism, especially Walter Benjamin and the authors of the Frankfurt School.
He levels a fierce critique of what he calls bourgeois Christianity and believes that the Christian Gospel has become less credible because it has become entangled with bourgeois religion.
His work Faith in History and Society develops apologetics, or fundamental theology, from this perspective.
Euler Renato Westphal (born July 2, 1957) is a university professor, writer and Lutheran theologian.
Dr. Westphal has a Bachelor's degree in Theology by Escola Superior de Teologia – EST ( ) (Superior School of Theology), also he studied in Missions Seminar St. Chrischona Pilgrim Mission ( ) (Basel, Switzerland – 1978–1982).
He practiced pastoral work for eight years in Missão Evangélica União Cristã – MEUC ( )(Evangelical Mission Christian Union) in Rio do Sul and Blumenau in Santa Catarina.
He was also the founder of the Centro de Recuperação Nova Esperança – CERENE (Center for Recuperation New Hope) and of a social work turned to low budget families, the Bom Amigo (Good Friend), in Blumenau.
Since 1990, he has dedicated himself to full-time teaching at Faculdade Luterana de Teologia – FLT (Lutheran College of Theology) and at Universidade da Região de Joinville – UNIVILLE ( )(University of the Region of Joinville).
In 1997 acquired his Doctorate in Theology, in São Leopoldo, Rio Grande do Sul.
He is professor of Systematic Theology in FLT.
His works include researches on the philosophy of science and Protestant theology.
Westphal is also a researcher in Bioethics, especially in UNIVILLE.
He was also member in the advising group of IECLB's presidency from 2003 to 2010 ( ).
Dr. Westphal has experience in the theological area, with emphasis in Lutheran confession, and performing especially in the following themes: Protestant theology, ethics and bioethics, hermeneutics and cultural patrimony and society.
He has five published works.
The themes deal with Protestant theology, liberation theology and bioethics as well as in philosophy of science, contemporary thought and hermeneutics.
He performs in the research lines of Patrimony and Sustainability of the Master’s in Cultural Patrimony and Society in UNIVILLE, Master's where he is also a professor at.
His research project is entitled “Epistemology of the Cultural Patrimony: hermeneutical aspects of the immateriality of the material patrimony”.
He has 51 published texts in journals and magazines.
Currently, he has various scientific articles and chapters of books published.
Dr. Westphal accounts for various orientations of conclusions in graduation courses, of Master’s and co-orientations.
He is a speaker of his researches’ themes.
He is also part of the research group “Teologia Pública em Perspective Latino-Americana” (Public Theology in a Latin-American Perspective) from EST (Superior School of Theology), São Leopoldo, Rio Grande do Sul.
In January and February 2012, he performed as guest professor in the Friedrich-Schiller-Universität (University of Jena) in the city of Jena, in Germany.
The focus of his performing as professor consisted in approaches on theology, pedagogy and cultural anthropology.
He performed in the College of Theology and of Social and Behavioral Sciences of Friedrich-Schiller-Universität in Jena.
John Warwick Montgomery is a noted lawyer, professor, Lutheran theologian, and prolific author living in France.
He was born October 18, 1931, in Warsaw, New York, United States.
He is Distinguished Research Professor of Philosophy at Concordia University, Wisconsin, and continues to work as a barrister specializing in religious freedom cases in international Human Rights law.
He is chiefly noted for his major contributions as a writer, lecturer and public debater in the field of Christian apologetics.
Since 2007 he is Emeritus Professor at University of Bedfordshire, England, where from 1995–2007 he held a full professorship in law and humanities.
From 2007-2014, he was the "Distinguished Research Professor of Philosophy and Christian Thought" at Patrick Henry College.
He is also the director of the International Academy of Apologetics, Evangelism & Human Rights, Strasbourg, France, and is the editor of the theological online journal Global Journal of Classical Theology.
Montgomery traces his ancestry back to Comte Roger de Montgomery who accompanied William the Conqueror in 1066 in the invasion of England.
His other titles include Baron of Kiltartan and Lord of Morris, and Comte de St-Germain de Montgommery.
Montgomery's more immediate branch of the family hailed from County Antrim in Ireland.
His parents were Maurice Warwick Montgomery (owned a retail feed company) and Harriet (Smith) Montgomery.
His one sibling, a sister, died in 2008.
Montgomery has been married twice.
His first wife is deceased.
He had 3 children with his first wife: two daughters and a son.
He married Lanalee de Kant, a professional harpist, in 1988.
They have an adopted son, Jean-Marie, and two grandchildren, Sarah and William.
Montgomery is a scholarly maverick who has 11 earned degrees in multiple disciplines: philosophy, librarianship, theology, and law.
His degrees include: the A.B.
with distinction in Philosophy (Cornell University; Phi Beta Kappa), B.L.S.
and M.A.
(University of California, Berkeley), B.D.
and S.T.M.
(Wittenberg University, Springfield, Ohio), LL.B.
(La Salle Extension University), M. Phil.
in Law (University of Essex, England), Ph.D. (University of Chicago), Th.D.
Doctorat d'Universite (University of Strasbourg), LLM and LLD in canon law (Cardiff University).
He also holds an honorary doctorate awarded in 1999 by the Institute for Religion and Law, Moscow.
Montgomery became a Christian in 1949 as an undergraduate student majoring in the classics and philosophy at Cornell University.
Upon graduation Montgomery then began studies in librarianship through the University of California, followed on by two degrees in theology, and ordination as a Lutheran clergyman.
His M.A.
thesis in library science was published by the University of California as A Seventeenth Century View of European Libraries.
In 1959–60 he served on the faculty of theology as principal librarian in the Divinity school's library at the University of Chicago, whilst simultaneously undertaking doctoral studies in bibliographical history.
He then served as Chairman of the Department of History at Wilfrid Laurier University, Canada, where he began to develop a reputation as a Christian apologist.
Some of his earliest apologetic lectures in defending the historical reliability of the gospel records were presented at the University of British Columbia and the lectures were subsequently published in his book History and Christianity.
On receiving a Canada Council Senior Research Fellowship, Montgomery commenced doctoral studies in theology at the University of Strasbourg, France.
His doctoral dissertation, which was on the life and career of the Lutheran pastor Johannes Valentinus Andreae and his alleged connections with Rosicrucianism, was subsequently published as Cross and Crucible.
Montgomery regards this particular text as his most important piece of scholarship.
After completing his Th.D (1964), Montgomery assumed a post as professor of church history at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in Deerfield, Illinois (1964–74).
It was during the 1960s that he emerged as a significant spokesman for Protestant Evangelicals, writing as a regular columnist in the flagship periodical Christianity Today (1965–83).
He injected himself into the theological controversies of his denomination the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod concerning Biblical inerrancy and higher criticism.
On the wider church scene he wrote against the death-of-God theology, and publicly debated one of its proponents Thomas J. J. Altizer at the University of Chicago in 1967.
He was also critical of Karl Barth, Paul Tillich and Rudolf Bultmann.
He summed up much of his opposition to Liberal Christianity and radical theologies in works such as Crisis in Lutheran Theology, The Suicide of Christian Theology and God's Inerrant Word.
His role as an apologist for the Christian faith extended to debates with the American atheist Madalyn Murray O'Hair (1967), situation ethicist Joseph Fletcher (1971), Australian atheist Mark Plummer (1986), humanist George A.
Wells (1993), and Jesus Seminar scholar Gerd Ludemann.
Montgomery, since 1965, is classified as an ordained minister in the Lutheran Church Missouri Synod.
During the 1970s Montgomery began training in the law with the twin aims of reintegrating Christian foundations into jurisprudence, and to integrate insights from legal theory and doctrines of proof relevant to furthering Christian evidentialist apologetics.
To that end Montgomery established in 1980 The Simon Greenleaf School of Law in California, which is now Trinity Law School, the law school of Trinity International University.
Montgomery worked as Dean and Professor from 1980-1989.
Faculty included theologians and lawyers from various denominational backgrounds such as Walter Martin, Harold Lindsell, Rod Rosenbladt, Hugh Ross and Harold O.J.
Brown.
Alumni include Francis Beckwith, Craig Parton and Kim Riddlebarger.
Montgomery was Editor of The Simon Greenleaf Law Review, which was published in 7 Volumes between 1981-1987.
In 1989 Montgomery began, with Michael Richard Smythe, the Irvine, Ca.
based Institute for Theology and Law, which beginning in 1995 became the current International Academy of Apologetics and Human Rights in Strasbourg, France.
In 1991 Montgomery relocated to London, where he became a Barrister-at-Law, wrote widely on apologetics, defended international cases of religious freedom, and taught at the University of Bedfordshire.
In 2009, Montgomery passed the French bar examinations and became an avocat à la Cour, barreau de Paris; he is a member of the Paris law firm of Noual Hadjaje Duval.
Montgomery's apologetic work has generally centred on establishing the divinity of Christ by assessing the historical and legal evidences for the resurrection.
Much of this work has influenced popular apologists like Josh McDowell, Don Stewart, Francis J. Beckwith, Ross Clifford, Terry Miethe, Gary Habermas, Craig Parton, Rod Rosenbladt, Loren Wilkinson, Kerry McRoberts and Elliot Miller.
He is an advocate of evidentialist apologetics, offering a distinctly Christian philosophy of history in his books The Shape of the Past and Where Is History Going?
Montgomery researched the claims of evidence for Noah's Ark for two years.
His quest took him through two thousand years of reports, sightings and claims, and on two ascents of Mount Ararat the first in August, 1970, on the South Face, and in Summer of 1971 on the North Face.
His effort to collect data and sift fact from fiction yielded his work "The Quest for Noah's Ark".
In the introduction he writes that he merely presents the facts and allows the readers to come to their own conclusions.
He was a contributing scholar on two film documentaries on the topic "Noah's Ark and the Genesis Flood" (1977), "In Search of Noah's Ark" (1976).
Montgomery's interests in the occult has also yielded his studies on early Rosicrucianism (Cross and Crucible), demonic phenomena (Demon Possession), and analytic considerations of the occult as a spiritual search for truth (Principalities and Powers).
In the 1980s he spent eight years as a Sunday evening radio broadcaster in California, and from 1988–92 a television presenter of "Christianity on Trial".
In his legal career Montgomery has, in addition to teaching law, practiced law in California, been admitted to the English bar as a barrister, is also licensed in France, taken higher degrees in ecclesiastical law at Cardiff University, and served as Director of Studies for the International Institute of Human Rights, Strasbourg (1979–81).
He has written on legal-moral problems such as cryonics, stem-cell research, euthanasia, abortion and divorce, as well as arguing for a transcendental perspective in international human rights and jurisprudence.
He has successfully represented clients in religious liberty cases before the Court of Appeals (1986) in Athens, Greece, and the European Court of Human Rights, Strasbourg (1997 and 2001).
Montgomery is author of over 235 works, including over one hundred scholarly journal articles and more than fifty books in eight languages.
He regards his Tractatus Logico-Theologicus as the most comprehensive presentation of his theology and apologetic method.
Articles and essays have appeared in periodicals such as Bibliotheca Sacra, Christian Century, Concordia Theological Quarterly, Ecclesiastical Law Journal, Eternity, Fides et Historia, Interpretation, Journal of the American Scientific Affiliation, Journal of the Evangelical Theological Society, Law and Justice, Library Quarterly, Modern Reformation, Muslim World, New Oxford Review, Religion in Life, Religious Education, Simon Greenleaf Law Review.
Richard Lippincott (1615–1683) was an early settler of Shrewsbury, New Jersey.
Lippincott was a devout English Quaker who emigrated to Colonial America to escape persecution for his religious beliefs.
Born in Devon, England, he was descended from Ruald Adolphus de Lovecote.
De Lovecote was a Norman who was a companion of William the Conqueror.
Richard Lippincott settled in Dorchester, Massachusetts Bay Colony and became a member of the church, consequently being made a Freeman by the General Court of Boston on 13 May 1640.
His first child, a son was born there and he was named Remembrance in the traditional Puritan manner.
However Lippincott soon removed to Boston where his second son John and his eldest daughter Abigail were born.
He was becoming disillusioned with New England Puritanism and was formally excommunicated on 6 July 1651 for being tenacious about his religious beliefs which became increasingly different from the church doctrine.
A year later he returned to England hoping to find greater religious liberties than he did in Massachusetts Bay.
He named his next child Restore in commemoration of this event.
After this he began to associate with George Fox and the Society of Friends(Quakers)and started debating with Fox's future wife Margaret Fell about whether Christ or the Scriptures was the Word of God.
Lippincott was jailed at Plymouth, Devonshire for attesting that "Christ was the Word of God, and the Scriptures a document of the mind of God".
After his release he found the occasion to name his next child, a son, "Freedom".
Things were quiet for a while and during this time a daughter named Increase and a son named Jacob were born.
After this last child he was again jailed for the "faithfulness of his religious convictions".
Fortunately he was released with the help of Margaret Fell who had some influence with Charles II.
Deciding that he was treated more poorly as a Quaker in England than he was in the New World he moved to Rhode Island where his last son Preserved was born as Lippincott finally believed that he had found liberty in Roger Williams' new colony.
Later, he moved to the area of Shrewsbury, New Jersey after buying patents for purchase of which he was by far the largest shareholder.
The reason given for the founding of the patents was in order that the inhabitants could experience "free liberty of Conscience without any molestation or disturbance whatever in the way of worship.
George W. Bush is a descendant of his son Freedom Lippincott through his mother, Barbara Bush Richard Nixon is a descendant of his son Restore Lippincott Sam Waterston, the American Actor, is a descendant of his son Freedom Lippincott through his mother, Alice.
The Antique Tribal Art Dealers Association (ATADA), was founded in 1988, by a group of independent antique tribal art dealers to form a professional association of dealers that would provide education for the public and set standards for the trade.
They recognized that tribal and ethnographic art had reached a level of specialization found in other art fields and were concerned by the volume of misidentified and pastiche materials on the market.
Members offer buyers a guarantee that objects they sell are as represented regarding age, authenticity and extent of restoration.
The ATADA is a non-profit membership organization of respected and established tribal art dealers from across the United States.
ATADA was formed to represent professional dealers of antique tribal art.
Their objectives are to promote professional conduct among dealers and to educate the public in the valuable role of tribal art in the wealth of human experience.
The organization's highest-priority goals, are: 1) to encourage the public to educate themselves in the cultures these objects represent and the roles they played within the cultures; and 2) to provide a set of standards for the trade and present ourselves to the public as a trustworthy association of art dealers adhering to the tenets outlined in ATADA bylaws.
Included in the ATADA goals statement is the assurance that "the materials and goods utilized or accorded reverence by functioning religious or cultural communities, as part of their system of religious beliefs or practices, should receive appropriate protection from commercial exploitation and market pressures.
Tribal leaders, dealers in tribal arts and appropriate government officials should work together to establish norms and procedures for ensuring that protection.
Concern for the protection of legitimate, ongoing religious beliefs and practices, however, should not constitute grounds for objection to trade in objects that are no longer of religious significance to any extant culture, whether due to extinction of the religious system or the fact that the object itself has lost whatever religious significance it might once have had.
Nor should such concerns interfere with the right of the legitimate owners of ceremonial objects to dispose of those objects as they see fit, as long as no applicable laws are violated."
The ATADA currently publishes The ATADA News and The ATADA Membership Directory.
The first issues of the ATADA Newsletter were published in 1988, first edited by Gary Spratt, then by Ramona Morris, then by Alice Kaufman.
The name of the publication is now the ATADA News.
Members are generally regarded as authorities in the field of antique tribal art.
ATADA Members are required to uphold ethical standards as defined in the ATADA Bylaws, and must agree to honor the ATADA guarantee of authenticity and condition for all American Indian and Tribal Art sales.
In addition to demonstrating a commitment to enriching the cultural lives of their communities, members share their expertise through significant exhibition, informative catalogs, and by offering quality works of art whose authenticity is unconditionally guaranteed.
The "2009-2010 ATADA Members Gallery and Directory" lists members by surname and allows them to post a full-color, annotated image of some of their best available pieces.
ATADA has vetted the images of all objects displayed, while each member retains responsibility for authenticating and identifying their own objects.
Each ATADA member has pledged to honor the guarantee of authenticity and condition.
On February 24, 2006 the ATADA launched a Lifetime Achievement Award "for contributions to the understanding and preservation of tribal art".
ATADA has worked in association with promoters to help vet their shows, recruiting a group of qualified volunteer experts.
ATADA vetters assisted at the Santa Fe Historic Indian and World Tribal Arts show in 2006 and The Marin Art of the Americas show in San Rafael, California in 2007.
It is an ATADA goal that vetted shows will soon become the standard.
The ATADA Lifetime Achievement Awards recognize and celebrate the outstanding accomplishments and contributions of people whose work has been both groundbreaking and instrumental to the fields of American Indian and Tribal art.
Alice Kaufman is the Executive Director and Secretary.
Sultaana Lakiana Myke Freeman (born 1967) is an American citizen, resident in the state of Florida.
She garnered media attention and notoriety when she sued the state of Florida in order to wear a face veil for her driver's license picture.
Born as Sandra Michele Keller in Washington, D.C. in 1967, she attended school in Decatur, Illinois.
In 1985, she enrolled at Millikin University in Decatur, Illinois, graduating in 1989 with a degree in Commercial Music and a Business Administration minor.
Later in 1989, she began employment at a utility company which lasted for a ten-year period, in which she was an engineering assistant.
She converted to Islam in January 1997, initially only wearing the headscarf, but, by the end of the year, donning the full face veil (niqab).
She married Mark Freeman, also known as Abdul Malik Freeman, on October 14, 1997, in Champaign County, Illinois.
In December 1997, she obtained an Illinois driver's license with the veil, to reflect her new appearance.
In 2002, Freeman filed a religious discrimination lawsuit against Florida when the state's Department of Highway Safety suspended her license when she refused to be re-photographed without her veil.
Her legal license was suspended without change in policy or law following the September 11, 2001 attacks.
Her lawsuit argued that her religious beliefs required her to wear a veil "in front of strangers and unrelated males".
It also stated that other states allowed photo-free licenses for religious reasons.
Judge Janet C. Thorpe denied her lawsuit that year, and a state appeals court later upheld Thorpe's ruling.
It emerged during trial by Assistant Attorney General Jason Vail that pictures of Freeman's uncovered face had already been taken by government authorities in Illinois.
In 1998, she and her husband hesitated when medical staff at a hospital asked to examine twin 3-year-old girls, described as “Muslim attire”, in their foster care.
Freeman and her husband apparently objected to any examination of the girls on the grounds that any such exam would violate their religious beliefs.
One of the girls had a broken arm, and both had numerous bruises and marks on their bodies.
The arrest not only resulted in Freeman's mugshot being taken without veil, but also in her conviction for aggravated battery and a sentence of 18 months probation.
In 1999, Freeman again posed for a police mugshot in connection with her husband's arrest on July 4.
She was not charged but her husband was later convicted of reckless discharge of a handgun and sentenced to probation.
Mazen Sukkar, a Lebanese-born immigration attorney, told the Fort Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel: "This is not Muhammad Ali refusing to kill during a war.
This is one individual who wants to practice her religion and undermine the whole idea of identification."
Shia Islam in Egypt is composed of the highly persecuted low profile Shia Muslim community of Egypt.
Shia Islam has a long pedigree in Egypt.
The Shia Fatimids came to power in 969 CE in Egypt; they established a new capital called Cairo as the seat of the Fatimid dynasty.
Fatimids ruled Egypt for 200 years (969 -1171) and shaped its identity.
They also established the famous al-Azhar University in 970 CE in Cairo as a Shia place of worship, founded in order to spread Shia Islam throughout the world; the university exists to this day and is one of the oldest universities in the world.
Al-Azhar was originally  </ref> However, It is generally accepted that before, during and after the Fatimid rule in Egypt, the people of Egypt were and continued to remain predominantly Sunni, with Ismailism being followed by the ruling classes, rather than the general populace.
Even today, Egypt remains a country with strong Shia ties.
Egyptian Sunnis especially followers of Sufi denominations visit revered Shia shrines and mosques dedicated to Hussein, Hasan, Zainab, Ali, and other Shia Imams, and unwittingly incorporate Shia practices into their traditions and funerary rites.
The number of Shia in Egypt is growing, and there have been several cases of Sunnis converting to Shiism.
Following are few Egyptian Shia organizations: While Shia activists claim the number exceeds eight million, the Salafists say there are only a few thousand.
Estimated numbers of Egypt’s Shias range from 800,000 to about two to three million.
The Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs estimates the Shia population of Egypt at 800,000.
According to Brian Whitaker, in Egypt, the small Shia population is harassed by the authorities and treated with suspicion, being arrested - ostensibly for security reasons - but then being subjected to torrents of abuse by state security officers for their religious beliefs.
For decades, international organisations – including the UN, Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International – have documented instances in which Egyptian Shias have been targeted for their religious beliefs.
A December 2012 report by UN refugee agency UNHCR highlighted the fact that Shias still cannot openly practice their religious rituals in Egypt.
Hassiba Hadj Sahraoui told the UNHCR that many groups were being prosecuted for alleged 'blasphemy.'
US Commission on International Religious Freedom continues to label Egypt as a "country of particular concern" in terms of systematic violations of religious freedom.
In December 2011, Egyptian security forces prevented hundreds of Shias from observing Ashura religious celebrations in Cairo’s El-Hussein Mosque, a Shia holy site.
Police forcibly removed the Shia worshippers from the mosque after Salafi groups accused them of performing barbaric rituals.
In May 2012, Al-Azhar Grand Imam Ahmed El-Tayeb chaired a meeting with Islamist forces – including scholars, Muslim Brotherhood members and Salafists – at which they declared their total rejection of "attempts to spread Shiism in Egypt."
On 23 June 2013, after months of wahhabi propaganda in the area, several hundred misguided Sunni Muslims attacked and surrounded the house of Shia cleric Hassan Shehata (an ex-Sunni) in the village of Abu Mussalam in Giza Province.
The mob killed the cleric and three of his followers and dragged their bodies on the streets.
The police did nothing to stop the attack.
Amnesty’s Deputy Director of Middle East Programs Hassiba Hadj Sahraoui said on 25 June 2013, "The Egyptian authorities must immediately order an independent and impartial investigation into the killing of the four men, and send a clear message that carrying out attacks and inciting violence against Shiite Muslims will not be tolerated."
Guinea is approximately 85 percent Muslim, 8 percent Christian, with 7 percent adhering to indigenous religious beliefs.
Much of the population, both Muslim and Christian, also incorporate indigenous African beliefs into their outlook.
Guinean Muslims are generally Sunni of Maliki school of jurisprudence, influenced with Sufism, with many Ahmadiyya; There are relatively few Shi'a in Guinea.
Christian groups include Roman Catholics, Anglicans, Baptists, Seventh-day Adventists, and other Evangelical groups.
Jehovah's Witnesses are active in the country and recognized by the Government.
There is a small Baha'i community.
There are small numbers of Hindus, Buddhists, and traditional Chinese religious groups among the expatriate community.
The Sande society is a secret women's association found in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea that initiates girls into adulthood, confers fertility, instills notions of morality and proper sexual comportment, and maintains an interest in the well-being of its members throughout their lives.
In addition, Sande champions women's social and political interests and promotes their solidarity vis-a-vis the Poro society, a complementary institution for men.
Today this social institution is found among the Bassa, Gola, Kissi, Kpelle, Loma, People and Vai of Liberia.
Throughout the region, the complementarity of men's and women's gender roles – evident in such diverse activities as farming, cloth production, and musical performances – reach full expression.
The women's Sande and men's Poro associations alternate political and ritual control of "the land" (a concept embracing the natural and supernatural worlds) for periods of three and four years respectively.
During Sande's sovereignty, all signs of the men's society are banished.
At the end of this three-year period, the Sande leadership "turns over the land" to its counterparts in the Poro Society for another four years, and after a rest period the ritual cycle begins anew.
The alternating three- and four-year initiation cycles for women and men respectively are one example of the widespread use of the numbers 3 and 4 to signify the gender of people, places and events; together the numbers equal seven, a sacred number throughout the region.
Muslims constitute a majority in all four major regions of Guinea.
Christians are most numerous in Conakry, large cities, the south, and the eastern Forest Region.
Indigenous religious beliefs are most prevalent in the Forest Region.
The constitution and other laws and policies protect religious freedom.
The constitution provides for the right of individuals to choose, change, and practice the religion of their choice.
The Guinean government's Secretariat of Religious Affairs aims to promote better relations among religious denominations and ameliorate interethnic tensions.
The secretary general of religious affairs appoints six national directors to lead the offices of Christian affairs, Islamic affairs, pilgrimages, places of worship, economic affairs and the endowment, and general inspector.
In some parts of Guinea, strong familial, communal, cultural, social, or economic pressure discourage conversion from Islam.
It has been reported that in the town of Dinguiraye, a holy city for African Muslims, public celebration of non-Muslim religious holidays or festivals are not permitted.
Dinguiraye town authorities have also refused permission to build a church within its boundaries.
There were 3 days of ethno-religious fighting in the city of Nzerekore in July 2013.
Fighting between ethnic Kpelle, who are Christian or animist, and ethnic Konianke, who are Muslims and close to the larger Malinke ethnic group, left at least 54 dead.
The dead included people who were killed with machetes and burned alive.
The violence ended after the Guinea military imposed a curfew, and President Conde made a televised appeal for calm.
Same-sex marriage became available in the Canadian Province of Saskatchewan as of November 5, 2004, as a result of a decision of the Family Law Division of the Saskatchewan Court of Queen's Bench.
This decision followed similar cases in six other provinces and territories, and pre-dated by eight months the federal Civil Marriage Act of 2005, which made same-sex marriage available throughout Canada.
Later court decisions have dealt with the issue of marriage commissioners who object to performing same-sex marriages on the basis of their religious beliefs.
In the fall of 2004, five same-sex couples brought an application in the Family Law Division of the Saskatchewan Court of Queen's Bench, seeking a judgment requiring marriage licence issuers appointed by the provincial government to issue marriage licences to same-sex couples.
The application was based on the argument that the traditional common law definition of marriage discriminated against same-sex couples on the basis of sexual orientation, contrary to the equality clause of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
At the time of the application, the courts in six other Canadian provinces and territories had upheld the constitutionality of same-sex marriage in Canada.
The application named as parties both the Attorney General of Canada and the Attorney General for Saskatchewan.
The federal government was a party because the substantive law governing the definition of marriage is a matter of federal jurisdiction under the Constitution of Canada.
The provincial government was a party because marriage licence issuers are provincial officials appointed under Saskatchewan's marriage legislation.
On September 27, 2004, the Saskatchewan Minister of Justice, Frank Quennell told CBC News that neither he nor the province would take a stand on the issue of same-sex marriage.
On 3 November 2004, the five same-sex couples appeared before Justice Donna Wilson on the application.
Neither the federal nor the provincial government challenged the suit.
"Greg Walen, lawyer for one of the couples, had filed a statement of claim seeking a declaratory judgment that the common-law definition of marriage be changed to include the wording 'two people to the exclusion of others,' rather than 'two people of the opposite sex.'
" On 5 November 2004, Justice Wilson ruled that the common-law opposite-sex definition of marriage violated the equality rights of same-sex couples under the Charter, and that "the common-law definition of marriage for civil purposes is declared to be 'the lawful union of two persons to the exclusion of all others.'
" Justice Wilson ordered the federal and provincial Attorneys General to pay court costs to the applicants, on a solicitor-client basis, fixed at a total of $10,000, divided evenly between the two governments.
In 2005, Orville Nichols, a 30-year marriage commissioner and devout Baptist, refused to marry a same-sex couple, M.J. and B.R., because it conflicted with his religious beliefs.
M.J. filed a complaint under The Saskatchewan Human Rights Code, on the basis that "...Mr. Nichols refused to perform a marriage between M.J. and B.R.
on the basis of the prohibited ground of M.J.’s sexual orientation."
The Saskatchewan Human Rights Tribunal ordered Nichols to pay $2,500 in compensation to the couple for infringing their right under The Saskatchewan Human Rights Code to access to public services without discrimination.
In 2009, the Saskatchewan Court of Queen's Bench dismissed Nichols' appeal.
The government followed by proposing legislation which would allow marriage commissioners to refuse for this reason.
In January 2011, on a reference question, the Saskatchewan Court of Appeal ruled that such a law would be unconstitutional.
Mallica Reynolds, OD (10 February 1911 - 24 February 1989), better known by the adopted name "Kapo", was a Jamaican artist and religious leader.
Considered one of the greatest artists in Jamaica's "Intuitives" artistic movement, Kapo's religious beliefs were reflected in his work.
Mallica Reynolds was born in Byndloss, Saint Catherine Parish, Jamaica on 10 February 1911.
At the age of 12, Reynolds had a religious experience and began going by the name "Kapo".
At age 16, he received a vision and became a preacher.
He later moved to Kingston, where he founded a Zion Revival church, St. Michael's Revival Apostolic Tabernacle.
Kapo was a leader in the Zion Revival movement, and from 1976 until his death, was the patriarch Bishop of St. Michael's Revival Apostolic Tabernacle.
He began creating paintings in the 1940s, and he rose to national and international acclaim in the 1960s.
Edward Seaga, a powerful politician who would go on to head the Jamaica Labour Party and later become the Prime Minister of Jamaica, and John Pringle, a founding figure in the Jamaican tourism industry, were both champions of Kapo's work.
The latter collected Kapo's work, and donated his collection to the National Gallery of Jamaica upon his death.
</ref> Roberta Flack, an American musician, was one of Kapo's patrons, and his portrait of her is now held by the American Folk Art Museum.
His works have been exhibited internationally, including six exhibitions in the United States between 1953 and 1982.
Heavily influenced by his religious beliefs, Kapo believed that he was tasked by god to create paintings and sculptures.
Dr. Veerle Poupeye, the Executive Director of the National Gallery of Jamaica, wrote that "Kapo's paintings and sculptures, as a whole, depict his Zion Revival life world".
Poupeye noted that several of Kapo's works depicted Zion Revival ceremonies, music, and dance.
Kapo is considered a member of the "Intuitives" artistic movement; a label propagated by the National Gallery of Jamaica to describe self-taught artists that had previously been referred to as "Jamaican Primitives".
</ref> He is considered one of the movement's greatest artists.
Kapo died on the 24th of February 1989, and was buried in National Heroes Park.
One of Kapo's paintings, "Shining Spring", was selected by the Jamaican government as a wedding gift for the 1981 Wedding of Prince Charles and Lady Diana.
In 1983, Kapo became the first artist to have a gallery exclusively of his work featured in an exhibition at the National Gallery of Jamaica.
He has been named to the Order of Distinction, and awarded the Norman Manley Award for Excellence in the Arts.
He was also awarded the Musgrave Gold Medal in 1985 by the Institute of Jamaica.
Dale Edwin Noyd (May 1, 1933 – January 11, 2007) was a decorated captain and fighter pilot in the U.S. Air Force who gained worldwide attention when he became a conscientious objector to protest the Vietnam War.
Noyd was born in Wenatchee, Washington.
He attended Washington State University and was the only member of the 1955 Reserve Officers Training Corps at WSU to be offered a regular commission, as opposed to a reserve commission.
Noyd's superior R.O.T.C.
record granted him the right to select his first base assignment.
Noyd opted for the U.S. Air Force base at Woodbridge, England.
While serving in England, Noyd received a medal for landing a badly damaged F-100 Super Sabre fighter that was armed with a nuclear weapon.
Noyd later became an instructor at the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado.
Noyd began to regard the U.S. role in the Vietnam War as immoral and illegal.
In 1966 he wrote an eight-page, single-spaced letter to Air Force supervisors asking to be allowed to resign or to be classed as a conscientious objector.
Noyd refused an order to train a pilot who would likely be sent to Vietnam, although he had been willing to teach at the Air Force Academy and train future military officers and pilots.
He was court-martialed for disobeying the order.
Noyd's position at trial was that he was a "Humanist" and his religious beliefs prevented him from participating in a war he felt unjust and immoral.
Noyd denied that he was opposed to all wars and agreed he would participate in wars he felt were morally justified.
He introduced evidence at trial, through the testimony of a Roman Catholic Priest and Law Professor at Georgetown University, that his Humanist beliefs amounted to religious beliefs and should be recognized as a basis for conscious objector status.
There was no evidence introduced that Humanism was recognized as a formal religion with accepted doctrines and beliefs relating to conscientious objection.
However, the prosecution did not deny the sincerity of Noyd's beliefs.
The issues at trial involved not whether Noyd was sincere in his beliefs, but whether the law allowed someone to be a conscious objector when only opposed to some wars, but not all wars.
The military judge and the appellate courts found that to be a conscientious objector under the law one must be opposed to all wars, not just those wars the individual deemed improper.
Because Noyd's beliefs did not legally qualify him for conscientious objector status, he was bound to follow the orders to fly the training mission and his failure to do so constituted a refusal to obey an order.
On March 9, 1965, the court found Noyd guilty.
The prosecution recommended a sentence of one year in prison and the Court sentenced him to one year in confinement, rather than the maximum five years, and stripped him of his pension and military benefits.
During his appeal Noyd was confined to quarters with his wife and family and drew full military pay.
He did not spend any time in any prison, for by the time the appeals had been ruled upon, his one year in confinement had passed.
Noyd taught psychology (with an emphasis on psychoanalysis) at Earlham College for 20 years.
After resigning from academia, Noyd built a boat that he used to sail to Tahiti.
He then settled in Hawaii and returned to Washington when his health deteriorated.
He died from complications of emphysema.
Noyd's son Erik told New York Times reporter Douglas Martin that his father kept two certificates on the wall of his study: the commendation he received for heroism, and his dishonorable discharge.
Gay affirmative psychotherapy is a form of psychotherapy for gay and lesbian clients which encourages them to accept their sexual orientation, and does not attempt to "change" them to heterosexual, or to "eliminate or diminish" same-sex "desires and behaviors".
The American Psychological Association (APA) offers guidelines and materials for gay affirmative psychotherapy.
Affirmative psychotherapy states that homosexuality or bisexuality is not a mental illness, in accordance with global scientific consensus.
In fact, embracing and affirming gay identity can be a key component to recovery from other mental illnesses or substance abuse.
Clients whose religious beliefs are interpreted as teaching against homosexual behavior may require some other method of integration of their possibly conflicting religious and sexual selves.
Countering psychiatry over the past hundred years that saw homosexuality to be a mental illness, current guidelines instead encourage psychotherapists to assist patients in overcoming the stigma of homosexuality rather than the sexual orientation.
Because some mental health professionals are unfamiliar with the social difficulties of the coming out process, particular to other factors such as age, race, ethnicity, or religious affiliation, they are encouraged by the APA to learn more about how gay, lesbian, and bisexual clients face discrimination in its various forms.
Many gays and lesbians are rejected from their own families and form their own familial relationships and support systems that may also be unfamiliar to mental health professionals, who are encouraged to take into account the diversity of extended relationships in lieu of family.
For some clients, acting on same-sex attraction may not be a fulfilling solution as it may conflict with their religious beliefs; licensed mental health providers may approach such a situation by neither rejecting nor promoting celibacy.
One of the emerging areas of research regarding gay affirmative psychotherapy is related to the process of assisting LGBTQ individuals from religious backgrounds feel comfortable with their sexual and gender orientation.
Narrative analyses of clinicians' reports regarding gay affirmative psychotherapy suggest that the majority of conflicts discussed within the therapeutic context by gay men and their relatives from religious backgrounds are related to the interaction between family, self, and religion.
Clinicians report that gay men and their families struggle more frequently with the institution, community, and practices of religion rather than directly with God.
Chana Etengoff and Colette Daiute report in the Journal of Homosexuality that clinicians most frequently address these tensions by emphasizing the mediational strategies of increasing self-awareness, seeking secular support (e.g., PFLAG), and increasing positive communication between family members.
In March 2008, the German federal government (CDU/SPD) summarized the professional consensus as indicating that homosexuality is not an illness, and that conversion therapy is dangerous and doesn't help homosexual people.
Voluntary changes to sexual orientation are not an option, according to the administration's answer to parliamentary questioning, as these attempts may cause personal harm.
The German government also made the point that Gay Affirmative Psychotherapy can help clients.
Kansas House Bill 2453, also known as the Religious Freedom Act, is a piece of legislation proposed in the state of Kansas that would allow people to refuse to provide services in any way related to any relationship (same-sex or otherwise) under the name "marriage, domestic partnership, civil union or similar arrangement" if their objection to doing so is based on their religious beliefs.
Representative Charles Macheers (R-Shawnee) introduced the legislation on January 16, 2014.
It passed in the House but was not taken up by the Kansas Senate.
Kansas does not have any legislation preventing discrimination on the basis of either sexual orientation and gender identity.
Based on an executive order by Governor Kathleen Sebelius, Kansas has prohibited discrimination on the bases of sexual orientation or gender identity (in government employment only) since 2007, and has since been repealed in February 10, 2015 by another Executive Order by the Governor of Kansas Sam Brownback.
Although same-sex marriages is now legal throughout the United States since June 26, 2015, under the Obergefell v. Hodges decision of the Supreme Court of the United States.
Supporters of this legislation felt religious individuals and institutions needed protection from getting sued or otherwise punished for denying services to gay and lesbian couples.
The legislation says that no individual or religious entity shall be required by any governmental entity to do any of the following, if it would be contrary to the sincerely held religious beliefs of the individual or religious entity regarding sex or gender: The legislation passed the state's Republican-dominated House on February 12, 2014, by a 72–49 vote.
State Senate President Susan Wagle said she anticipated that the bill would not pass the Senate: "A strong majority of my members support laws that define traditional marriage, protect religious institutions, and protect individuals from being forced to violate their personal moral values.
However, my members also don't condone discrimination."
On February 18, the Catholic bishops of Kansas reiterated their support.
Representative Emily Perry (D-Overland Park) criticized the bill, citing a hypothetical example of emergency services personnel such as a police officer who, arriving at the scene of a domestic violence dispute, could endanger lives by refusing protective services.
Holly Weatherford, spokeswoman for the Kansas chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, said "Kansas would be the first state to legalize discrimination on the part of employees—government employees."
The Kansas Chamber of Commerce said it wanted coverage of private businesses and nonreligious entities removed from the bill.
Others disputed whether a distinction can be made between acting on the basis of a same-sex marriage and acting on the basis of sexual orientation.
On February 19, Senator Jeff King (R-Independence), Chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said his committee would not consider the legislation, ending its consideration.
The bill's opponents characterize it as establishing second-class citizenship for gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people, while its supporters believe it prevents the state from requiring anyone to perform an action he or she sincerely believes to be wrong as a matter of religious principle.
Political theology is a part of both political philosophy and theology that investigates the ways in which theological concepts or ways of thinking relate to politics, society, and economics.
Though the relationship between Christianity and politics has been debated since the time of Jesus, political theology as an academic discipline began during the latter part of the 20th century, partially as a response to the work of both Carl Schmitt and the Frankfurt School.
The journal Political Theology currently examines this interface of religious faith and politics.
Writing amidst the turbulence of the German Weimar Republic, Carl Schmitt argued in Political Theology that the main concepts of modern politics were secularized versions of older theological concepts.
Mikhail Bakunin had used the term in his 1871 text "The Political Theology of Mazzini and the International" to which Schmitt's book was a response.
Drawing on Thomas Hobbes in Leviathan he argued that the state exists to maintain its own integrity in order to ensure order in society in times of crisis.
With the exception of Schmitt, much of political theology’s roots can be traced to discussions of the relationship of ethics and religion.
The influence of Hegel is also evident throughout much of political theology including the theology developed by the Catholic theologian Johann Baptist Metz.
Metz explored the concept of political theology throughout his work.
He argued for the concept of a 'suffering God' who shared the pain of his creation, writing, "Yet, faced with conditions in God's creation that cry out to heaven, how can the theology of the creator God avoid the suspicion of apathy unless it takes up the language of a suffering God?"
This leads Metz to develop a theology that is related to Marxism.
He criticizes what he terms bourgeois Christianity and believes that the Christian Gospel has become less credible because it has become entangled with bourgeois religion.
His work Faith in History and Society develops apologetics, or fundamental theology, from this perspective.
Two of the other major early developers of political theology were Jürgen Moltmann and Dorothee Solle.
As in Metz' work, the concept of a suffering God is important to Moltmann's theological program.
Moltmann's political theology was influenced strongly by the Marxist philosopher Ernst Bloch, and both Moltmann and Solle were influenced heavily by liberation theology, as was Metz.
Another early influence was the Frankfurt School of critical theory, especially Walter Benjamin, and the Frankfurt School's broader critique of modernity.
Reinhold Niebuhr also developed a theology similar to Metz in the practical application of theology.
During the 1930s, Niebuhr was a leader of the Socialist Party of America, and although he broke with the party later in life socialist thought is a prominent component of his development of Christian Realism.
The work by Niebuhr that best exemplifies his relationship with political theology is Moral Man and Immoral Society: A Study of Ethics and Politics (1932).
One of the most influential developers of recent political theology is Stanley Hauerwas, though he considers his work to be better termed a "theological politics".
Hauerwas has actively critiqued the political theology of both Reinhold Niebuhr and H. Richard Niebuhr, and has been a frequently critic of Christians' attempt to attain political power and align themselves with secular political ideologies.
Moreoever, he has been a severe critic of liberal democracy, capitalism, and militarism, arguing that all of those ideologies are antithetical to Christian convictions.
Many major non-Christian philosophers have written extensively on the topic of political theology during recent years, such as Jürgen Habermas, Giorgio Agamben, Simon Critchley, and Slavoj Zizek.
The term political theology has been used in a wide variety of ways by writers exploring different aspects of the subject, with tension developing between those advocating a traditional concern with individual "moral reform", such as Clyde Wilcox's God's Warriors (1992) and Ted Jelen's The Political World of the Clergy (1993), and those leftists who focus on collective "social justice", e.g.
Jeffrey K. Hadden's The Gathering Storm in the Churches (1969) and Harold Quinley's The Prophetic Clergy (1974).
William A. Dyrness is an American theologian and professor of theology and culture at Fuller Theological Seminary.
He teaches courses in theology, culture, and the arts, and is a founding member of the Brehm Center.
Dyrness holds a B.A.
from Wheaton College, a B.A.
from Columbia Theological Seminary, a B. Div.
from Fuller Theological Seminary, a D. Théol.
from the University of Strasbourg, a Doctorandus from the Vrije Universiteit, and was a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Cambridge in 1978 and again in 2000.
Dyrness joined the Fuller faculty in 1990 and served as dean of the School of Theology from 1990 to 2000.
Before coming to Fuller he served as professor and president at New College Berkeley (1982–1990), professor and acting dean at Nairobi Evangelical Graduate School of Theology and program director and co-founder of the Institute for Studies in Asian Church Culture.
He has been a visiting professor at Asian Center for Theological Studies and Mission, Asian Theological Seminary, Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary and Regent College.
He has served on a number of boards including the Theology Through the Arts steering committee (1997–2000), the national board of Christians in the Visual Arts (1999 to 2005), the editorial board of the International Journal of Systematic Theology (2001 to present), The Society for Arts in Religious and Theological Studies (2005 to present), and on the board of Development Associates International (2000 to the present).
He is also a senior fellow at USC's Center for Religion and Civic Culture (since 2000) and consulting editor for Christianity Today (1996 to present).
Dyrness works at the intersection of Reformed, evangelical, global and ecumenical theology.
His numerous publications can be characterized as an attempt to grapple with "the dramatic encounter between faith and human culture."
Dyrness's 1971 book on the twentieth-century French Catholic painter Georges Rouault influenced an entire generation of Christian visual artists.
Dyrness studied with noted Christian philosopher and art historian Hans Rookmaaker, and is considered a leading expert on Christian theology and visual culture.
He is an ordained minister in the Presbyterian Church (USA).
Dyrness has published work in a variety of fields, including theology and culture, apologetics, theology and art, and global missions.
In addition to numerous articles he is the author of seventeen books.
Eastern philosophy includes the various philosophies of South and East Asia, including Chinese philosophy, Indian philosophy, Japanese philosophy.
Sometimes Iranian/Persian philosophy can be considered as eastern philosophy.
Broadly speaking the term can also sometimes include Babylonian philosophy, Jewish philosophy, and Islamic philosophy, though these may also be considered Western philosophies.
Eastern philosophy includes the various philosophies of Asia, including Indian philosophy, Chinese philosophy, Iranian philosophy, Japanese philosophy, Korean philosophy, Vietnamese philosophy, Arab philosophy, Mitwi philosophy, and Jewish philosophy.
The division is not purely geographic but also stems from general hermeneutic and conceptual differences that lie between Eastern and Western traditions.
Some Western thinkers claim that philosophy as such is only characteristic of Western cultures.
Martin Heidegger is even reported to have said that only Greek and German languages are suitable for philosophizing.
On the other hand, Arab and Jewish philosophy, which have been in dialogue with the Greek tradition and, in the case of leading Islamic philosophers such as Ibn Sina or Ibn Rushd, rely heavily on it, are not specifically Eastern philosophies at all.
It is still commonplace in Western universities to teach only Western philosophy and to ignore Asian philosophy altogether, or consider only newer Western-influenced Asian thought properly "philosophy".
Carine Defoort, herself a specialist in Chinese thought, has offered support for such a "family" view of philosophy, while Rein Raud has presented an argument against it and offered a more flexible definition of philosophy that would include both Western and Asian thought on equal terms.
In response, OuYang Min argues that philosophy proper is a Western cultural practice and essentially different from zhexue, which is what the Chinese have, even though zhexue (originally tetsugaku) is actually a neologism coined in 1873 by Nishi Amane for describing Western philosophy as opposed to traditional Asian thought.
Some Eastern philosophies have formulated questions on the nature of God and its relationship to the universe based on Monotheistic framework within which it emerged.
This has created a dichotomy among some Western philosophies, between secular philosophies and religious philosophies developed within the context of a particular monotheistic religion's dogma—especially some creeds of Protestant Christianity, regarding the nature of God and the universe.
Eastern religions have been as concerned by questions relating to the nature of a single God as the universe's sole creator and ruler.
The distinction between the religious and the secular tends to be much less sharp in Eastern philosophy, and the same philosophical school often contains both religious and philosophical elements.
Thus, some people accept the so-called metaphysical tenets of Buddhism without going to a temple and worshipping.
Some have worshipped the Taoist deities religiously without bothering to delve into the theological underpinnings, while others embrace the Taoist religion while ignoring the mythological aspects.
This arrangement stands in marked contrast to some recent philosophy in the West, which has traditionally enforced either a completely unified philosophic/religious belief system (for example, the various sects and associated philosophies of Christianity, Judaism, and Islam), or a sharp and total repudiation of some forms of religion by philosophy (for example, Nietzsche, Marx, Voltaire, etc.).
A common thread that often differentiates Eastern philosophy from Western is the relationship between the gods (or God) and the universe.
Some Western schools of thought were animistic or pantheistic, such as the classical Greek tradition, while later religious beliefs, influenced by the monotheism of the Abrahamic religions, portrayed divinity as more transcendent.
Much like the classical Greek philosophies, many Eastern schools of thought were more interested in explaining the natural world via universal patterns; without recourse to capricious agencies like gods (or God).
Syncretism allowed various schools of thought such as Yi, Yin yang, Wu xing and Ren to mutually complement one another without threatening traditional religious practice or new religious movements.
There have been many modern attempts to integrate Western and Eastern philosophical traditions.
Arthur Schopenhauer developed a philosophy that was essentially a synthesis of Hinduism with Western thought.
He anticipated that the Upanishads (primary Hindu scriptures) would have a much greater influence in the West than they have had.
However, Schopenhauer was working with heavily flawed early translations (and sometimes second-degree translations), and many feel that he may not necessarily have accurately grasped the Eastern philosophies which interested him.
Recent attempts to incorporate Western philosophy into Eastern thought include the Kyoto School of philosophers, who combined the phenomenology of Husserl with the insights of Zen Buddhism.
Watsuji Tetsurô, a 20th-century Japanese philosopher attempted to combine the works of Søren Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, and Heidegger with Eastern philosophies.
Some have claimed that there is also a definite eastern element within Heidegger's philosophy.
For the most part this is not made explicit within Heidegger's philosophy, apart from in the dialogue between a Japanese and inquirer.
Heidegger did spend time attempting to translate the Tao Te Ching into German, working with his Chinese student Paul Hsaio.
It has also been claimed that much of Heidegger's later philosophy, particularly the sacredness of Being, bears a distinct similarity to Taoist ideas.
There are clear parallels between Heidegger and the work of Kyoto School, and ultimately, it may be read that Heidegger's philosophy is an attempt to 'turn eastwards' in response to the crisis in Western civilization.
However, this is only an interpretation.
The 20th century Hindu guru Sri Aurobindo was influenced by German Idealism and his integral yoga is regarded as a synthesis of Eastern and Western thought.
The German phenomenologist Jean Gebser's writings on the history of consciousness referred to a new planetary consciousness that would bridge this gap.
Followers of these two authors are often grouped together under the term Integral thought.
Swiss psychologist Carl Jung was deeply influenced by the I Ching.
The I Ching (Book of Changes) is an ancient Chinese text from the Shang Dynasty (Bronze Age 1700BC-1050BC), and uses a system of Yin and Yang, which it places into hexagrams for the purposes of divination.
Carl Jung's idea of synchronicity moves towards an Oriental view of causality, as he states in the foreword to Richard Wilhelm's translation of the I Ching (Book of Changes).
He explains that this Chinese view of the world is based not on science as the West knows it, but on chance.
Confucianism(儒學), developed around the teachings of Confucius(孔子) and is based on a set of Chinese classic texts.
Neo-Confucianism is a later further development of Confucianism but also went much more differently from the origin of Confucianism.
It started developing from the Song Dynasty and was nearly completed in late Ming Dynasty.
Its root can be found as early as Tang Dynasty, often attributed to scholar Tang Xie Tian.
It has a great influence on the countries of East Asia including China, Japan and Korea as well as Vietnam.
Zhu Xi is considered as the biggest master of Song where Neo-Confucianism and Wang Yangming is the one of Ming's.
But there are conflicts between Zhu's school and Wang's.
Taoism (or Daoism) is traditionally contrasted with Confucianism in China.
Taoism's central books are the Dao De Jing (Tao-Te-Ching), traditionally attributed to Laozi (Lao Tzu), and the Nan Hua Jing (Zhuang Zi/Chuang Tzu).
Shinto is the indigenous religion of Japan.
It is a sophisticated form of animism that holds that spirits called kami inhabit all things.
Worship is at public shrines or in small shrines constructed in one's home.
According to Shinto practice, relationship with the kami that inhabit this world is foremost in a person's duties; the kami are to be respected so that they may return our respect.
Shinto further holds that the "spirit" and "mundane" worlds are one and the same.
Of all of the tenets of this philosophy, purity is the most highly stressed.
Pure acts are those that promote or contribute to the harmony of the universe, and impure acts are those that are deleterious in this regard.
As a faith, Shinto is heavily influenced by Chinese religions, notably Taoism and Buddhism.
Legalism advocated a strict interpretation of the law in every respect.
Morality was not important ; adherence to the letter of the law was paramount.
Maoism is a Communist philosophy based on the teachings of 20th century Communist Party of China revolutionary leader Mao Zedong.
It is based partially on earlier theories by Marx and Lenin, but rejects the urban proletariat and Leninist emphasis on heavy industrialization in favor of a revolution supported by the peasantry, and a decentralized agrarian economy based on many collectively worked farms.
Juche, usually translated as "self-reliance", is the official political ideology of North Korea, described by the regime as Kim Il-Sung's "original, brilliant and revolutionary contribution to national and international thought".
The idea states that an individual is "the master of his destiny" and that the North Korean masses are to act as the "masters of the revolution and construction".
Hinduism is the dominant religion, or way of life, in South Asia.
It includes Shaivism, Vaishnavism and Shaktism among numerous other traditions, and a wide spectrum of laws and prescriptions of "daily morality" based on karma, dharma, and societal norms.
Hinduism is a categorisation of distinct intellectual or philosophical points of view, rather than a rigid, common set of beliefs.
Hinduism, with about one billion followers is the world's third largest religion, after Christianity and Islam.
Hinduism has been called the "oldest religion" in the world, and some practitioners refer to it as , "the eternal law" or the "eternal way"; beyond human origins.
Western scholars regard Hinduism as a fusion or synthesis of various Indian cultures and traditions, with diverse roots and no single founder.
It prescribes the eternal duties, such as honesty, refraining from injuring living beings (ahimsa), patience, forbearance, self-restraint, compassion, among others.Alban Widgery, The Principles of Hindu Ethics, International Journal of Ethics, Vol.
40, No.
2, pages 232-245</ref> In the early medieval times, after the rise of Muslim powers, Hindu philosophy was classified by Hindu tradition into six ( "orthodox") schools of thought, or (दर्शनम्, "view"), which accept the Vedas as authoritative texts, and four ( "heterodox") schools which don't draw upon the Vedas as authoritative texts, and developed independent traditions of thought.
Nevertheless, the various schools are in many ways related, and share various strands of though.
The schools are (in chronological order): Each school of Hindu philosophy has extensive epistemological literature called Pramana-sastras.
In Hindu history, the distinction of the six orthodox schools was current in the Gupta period "golden age" of Hinduism.
With the disappearance of Vaisheshika and Mīmāṃsā, it became obsolete by the later Middle Ages, when the various sub-schools of Vedanta (Dvaita "dualism", Advaita Vedanta "non-dualism" and others) began to rise to prominence as the main divisions of religious philosophy.
Nyaya survived into the 17th century as Navya Nyaya "Neo-Nyaya", while Samkhya gradually lost its status as an independent school, its tenets absorbed into Yoga and Vedanta.
Buddhism is a system of religious beliefs based on the teachings of Siddhartha Gautama.
Buddhism is a non-theistic religion, one whose tenets are not especially concerned with the existence or non-existence of a God or gods.
The Buddha himself expressly disavowed any special divine status or inspiration, and said that anyone, anywhere could achieve all the insight that he had.
The question of God is largely irrelevant in Buddhism, though some sects (notably Tibetan Buddhism) do venerate a number of gods drawn in from local indigenous belief systems yet this practice has taken on different meanings and has become a skillful mean within the Tibetan Buddhist practice.
Buddhist philosophy has its foundations in the doctrines of: Most Buddhist sects believe in karma, a cause-and-effect relationship between all that has been done and all that will be done.
Events that occur are held to be the direct result of previous events.
One effect of karma is rebirth.
At death, the karma from a given life determines the nature of the next life's existence.
The ultimate goal of a Buddhist practitioner is to eliminate karma (both good and bad), end the cycle of rebirth and suffering, and attain Nirvana, usually translated as awakening or enlightenment.
See also: Buddhism &mdash; Outline of Buddhism &mdash; Schools of Buddhism See also Sikhism - Sikh Beliefs - Basic Tenets of the Sikhism - Sikhism Primary Beliefs and Principles Jain philosophy deals extensively with the problems of metaphysics, reality, cosmology, ontology, epistemology and divinity.
Jainism is essentially a transtheistic religion of ancient India.
It continues the ancient tradition, which co-existed with the Vedic tradition since ancient times.
The distinguishing features of Jain philosophy are its belief on independent existence of soul and matter, denial of creative and omnipotent God, potency of karma, eternal and uncreated universe, a strong emphasis on non-violence, accent on relativity and multiple facets of truth, and morality and ethics based on liberation of soul.
Jain philosophy attempts to explain the rationale of being and existence, the nature of the Universe and its constituents, the nature of bondage and the means to achieve liberation.
It has often been described as an ascetic movement for its strong emphasis on self-control, austerities and renunciation.
It has also been called a model of philosophical liberalism for its insistence that truth is relative and multifaceted and for its willingness to accommodate all possible view-points of the rival philosophies.
Jainism strongly upholds the individualistic nature of soul and personal responsibility for one's decisions; and that self-reliance and individual efforts alone are responsible for one's liberation.
Throughout its history, the Jain philosophy remained unified and single, although as a religion, Jainism was divided into various sects and traditions.
The contribution of Jain philosophy in developing the Indian philosophy has been significant.
Jain philosophical concepts like Ahimsa, Karma, Moksa, Samsara and the like are common with other Indian religions like Hinduism and Buddhism in various forms.
While Jainism traces its philosophy from teachings of Mahavira and other Tirthankaras, various Jain philosophers from Kundakunda and Umasvati in ancient times to in recent times have contributed greatly in developing and refining the Jain and Indian philosophical concepts.
Cārvāka, also frequently transliterated as Charvaka or Cārvāka, and also known as Lokayata or Lokyāta, was a materialist and atheist school of thought with ancient roots in India.
It proposed a system of ethics based on rational thought.
However, this school has been dead for more than a thousand years.
See also Ancient Iranian Philosophy Zoroastrianism is a monotheistic religion, which originated in Iran.
It has a dualistic nature (Ahura Mazda and Angra Mainyu), with an additional series of six important divine entities called the Amesha Spentas.
In modern Zoroastrianism they are interpreted as aspects or emanations of Ahura Mazda (the Supreme Being), who form a heptad that is good and constructive.
They are opposed to another group of seven who are evil and destructive.
It is this persistent conflict between good and evil that distinguishes Zoroastrianism from monotheistic frameworks that have only one power as supreme.
By requiring its adherents to have faith and belief in equally opposing powers Zoroastrianism characterizes itself as dualistic.
The teachings of Zarathustra (Zoroaster) appeared in Persia at some point during the period 1700-1800 BCE.
His wisdom became the basis of the religion Zoroastrianism, and generally influenced the development of the Iranian branch of Indo-Iranian philosophy.
Zarathustra was the first who treated the problem of evil in philosophical terms.
He is also believed to be one of the oldest monotheists in the history of religion.
He espoused an ethical philosophy based on the primacy of good thoughts (pendar-e-nik), good words (goftar-e-nik), and good deeds (kerdar-e-nik).
The works of Zoroaster and Zoroastrianism had a significant influence on Greek philosophy and Roman philosophy.
Several ancient Greek writers such as Eudoxus of Cnidus and Latin writers such as Pliny the Elder praised Zoroastrian philosophy as "the most famous and most useful".
Plato learnt of Zoroastrian philosophy through Eudoxus and incorporated much of it into his own Platonic realism.
In the 3rd century BC, however, Colotes accused Plato's The Republic of plagiarizing parts of Zoroaster's On Nature, such as the Myth of Er.
Manichaeism, founded by Mani, was influential from North Africa in the West, to China in the East.
Its influence subtly continues in Western Christian thought via Saint Augustine of Hippo, who converted to Christianity from Manichaeism, which he passionately denounced in his writings, and whose writings continue to be influential among Catholic, Protestant and Orthodox theologians.
An important principle of Manichaeism was its dualistic nature.
The religious and philosophical teaching called Mazdakism, which its founder, Mazdak, regarded as a reformed and purified version of Zoroastrianism displays remarkable influences from Manichaeism as well.
Zurvanism is characterized by the element of its first principle, which is time (Zurvan), as a primordial creator.
According to Zaehner, Zurvanism appears to have three schools of thought, all with classical Zurvanism as a foundation: aesthetic, materialist, and fatalistic.
Aesthetic Zurvanism—apparently not as popular as the materialistic kind—viewed Zurvan as undifferentiated time, which, under the influence of desire, divided reason (a male principle) and concupiscence (a female principle).
While Zoroaster's Ormuzd created the universe with his thought, materialist Zurvanism challenged the concept that anything could be made out of nothing.
Fatalistic Zurvanism resulted from the doctrine of limited time with the implication that nothing could change this preordained course of the material universe and that the path of the astral bodies of the 'heavenly sphere' was representative of this preordained course.
According to the Middle Persian work Menog-i Khrad: "Ohrmazd allotted happiness to man, but if man did not receive it, it was owing to the extortion of these planets."
The Persian polymath Avicenna wrote almost 450 treatises on a wide range of subjects.
Many philosophical works, among them The Book of Healing, have survived.
The Philosophy of Illumination founded by Sohrevardi argued that light operates at all levels and hierarchies of reality.
Light produces immaterial and substantial lights, including immaterial intellects, human and animal souls and even 'dusky substances', such as bodies.
Sohrevardi's works display extensive developments on the basis of Zoroastrian ideas and ancient Iranian thought.
Transcendent Philosophy, developed by Sadr Shirazi, is one of two main disciplines of Islamic philosophy that is currently live and active.
`Abdu'l-Bahá, son and successor of the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, has explained the Bahá'í philosophy in the work Some Answered Questions.
Jewish philosophy includes all philosophy carried out by Jews, both within their original homeland and in the diaspora.
The origins of Babylonian philosophy, in the popular sense of the word, can be traced back to the wisdom of early Mesopotamia, which embodied certain philosophies of life, particularly ethics, in the forms of dialectic, dialogs, epic poetry, folklore, hymns, lyrics, prose, and proverbs.
The reasoning and rationality of the Babylonians developed beyond empirical observation.
It is possible that Babylonian philosophy had an influence on Greek philosophy, and later Hellenistic philosophy, however the textual evidence is lacking.
The undated Babylonian text Dialog of Pessimism contains similarities to the agnostic thought of the sophists, the Heraclitean doctrine of contrasts, and the dialogs of Plato, as well as a precursor to the maieutic Socratic method of Socrates and Plato.
The Milesian philosopher Thales is also said to have studied philosophy in Mesopotamia.
The rise of Islam and the influence of classical Greek thought, especially Aristotle, led to the emergence of various philosophical schools of thought.
Amongst them Sufism established esoteric philosophy, Mu'tazili (partly influenced by Hellenistic philosophy) reconstructed rationalism, while Ash'ari reshaped logical and rational interpretation of God, justice, destiny and the universe.
Early Islamic philosophy was influenced by (ancient) Greek philosophy, Hellenistic philosophy, Iranian philosophy, Judaism, Christianity and Indian philosophy, and in turn, Islamic philosophy had a strong influence on (medieval) Jewish philosophy, Christian philosophy/Western philosophy, Iranian philosophy and Indian philosophy, hence many consider Islamic philosophy to be both an Eastern philosophy and a Western philosophy.
Al-Mu'tazilah (المعتزلة) or Mu'tazilite is a popular theological school of philosophy during early Islam.
They called themselves Ahl al-'Adl wa al-Tawhid ("People of Justice and Monotheism").
They ascended dramatically during 8th and 9th century due to the support of intellectuals and elites.
Later in the 13th century, they lost official support in favour of the rising Ash'ari school.
Most of their valuable works were destroyed during the Crusades and Mongol invasion.
One of the most influential Muslim philosophers in the West was Averroes (Ibn Rushd), founder of the Averroism school of philosophy.
It is said that other influential Muslim philosophers include al-Jahiz, a pioneer of evolutionary thought and natural selection; Ibn al-Haytham (Alhacen), a pioneer of phenomenology and the philosophy of science and a critic of Aristotelian natural philosophy and Aristotle's concept of place (topos); Abū Rayhān al-Bīrūnī, a critic of Aristotelian natural philosophy; Avicenna, a critic of Aristotelian logic; Fakhr al-Din al-Razi, a critic of Aristotelian logic and a pioneer of inductive logic; and Ibn Khaldun, considered the father of the philosophy of history and sociology and a pioneer of social philosophy.
However, not very much credible evidence to support such claims is forthcoming, at least in the field of Arabic-English translation methodology, with regards to the exact sciences of semantics and hermeneutics.
See Also: Mu'tazili &mdash; Ash'ari &mdash; Sufism &mdash; Illuminationist philosophy Sufism (تصوف ) is a school of esoteric philosophy in Islam, which is based on the pursuit of spiritual truth as a definite goal to attain.
To attain this supreme truth, Sufism has marked Lataif-e-Sitta (the six subtleties), Nafs, Qalb, Sirr, Ruh (spirit), Khafi and Akhfa.
Apart from conventional religious practices, they also perform Muraqaba (meditation), Dhikr (Zikr or recitation), Chillakashi (asceticism) and Sama (esoteric music and dance).
The Stockholm School of Theology (Teologiska högskolan Stockholm) is an independent school for Theology and Human Rights in Stockholm, Sweden, sponsored by the Uniting Church in Sweden (Swedish: Equmeniakyrkan).
The institution has been accredited by the Swedish National Agency for Higher Education to award degrees in the field of Theology (Swedish: kandidatexamen i teologi and masterexamen i teologi, Bachelor of Theology and Master of Theology) as well as in the field of Human Rights (Swedish: kandidatexamen i mänskliga rättigheter).
In cooperation with Uppsala University Stockholm School of Theology also award a Master's degree in Human Rights.
The school declares an ecumenical ambition and students include future pastors in the denomination, but also a sizable group training for clerical positions in the Church of Sweden, as well as others.
Christian Friedrich Illgen (16 September 1786, Chemnitz &ndash; 4 August 1844, Leipzig) was a German Protestant theologian, known for his work in the field of historical theology.
He studied theology at the University of Leipzig, where in 1814 he obtained his habilitation.
In 1818 he became an associate professor of philosophy, and several years later, an associate professor of theology.
From 1825 onward, he served as a full professor of theology at the University of Leipzig.
On four separate occasions he was dean to the faculty of theology (1830/31, 1833/34, 1837/38, 1841/42).
In 1814 he founded the successful Historisch-theologische Gesellschaft zu Leipzig, an association for the promotion of church history studies.
Beginning in 1832, he was editor of the periodical Zeitschrift für die historische Theologie (Magazine of Historical Theology).
After his death in 1844, publication of the journal was continued by Christian Wilhelm Niedner.
The Indian Journal of Theology was a biannual peer-reviewed academic journal of Christian theology.
It was established in 1952 and the last issue appeared in 2004.
It was published by Bishop's College (Kolkata) and the theology department at Serampore College.
The editors-in-chief were Pratap Chandra Gine and V. J. John.
The journal was abstracted and indexed in the ATLA Religion Database.
Celia Deane-Drummond (born 1956) is a professor of theology at the University of Notre Dame.
She teaches systematic theology in relation to biological science - especially evolution, ecology, genetics; bioethics - especially sustainability, ecotheology, and public theology.
She gained a BA from the University of Cambridge in Natural Sciences which became an MA in 1981, and in 1980 received her PhD in plant physiology at the University of Reading.
During the 1980s she was a lecturer in plant physiology at Durham University.
Here she also took a BA in Theology, them moved to Manchester University to take a PhD in Systematic Theology.
She also has a Postgraduate Certificate in Education from Manchester Metropolitan University, was completed in 1994.
In 2000 she was appointed to a professorship in theology and the biological sciences at the University of Chester which she held until her move to the University of Notre Dame in 2011.
J. Wentzel van Huyssteen was a professor at Princeton Theological Seminary from 1992-2014.
His official position was the James I. McCord Professor of Theology and Science.
Born in South Africa, he was ordained as part of the Dutch Reformed Church in South Africa.
He received his MA in philosophy from the Stellenbosch University in South Africa, and his PhD in philosophical theology from the Free University of Amsterdam.
His areas of expertise are theology and science as well as religion and scientific epistemology.
He is currently on the editorial board for the American Journal of Theology and Philosophy, the Nederduits Gereformeerde Teologiese Tydskrif, and the Journal of Theology and Science, and is coeditor of the Science and Religion Series (Ashgate Press).
In 2004 he was selected to deliver the esteemed Gifford Lectures, in which he presented his work titled “Alone in the World?
Science and Theology on Human Uniqueness.”
Professor Doctor John Chrysostom Maviiri is a Ugandan theologian, academic and academic administrator.
He is the current Vice Chancellor of Uganda Martyrs University, a private university affiliated with the Roman Catholic Church in Uganda.
He assumed office in January 2015, replacing Professor Charles Olweny, who retired.
He holds the Diploma in Theology, obtained from Makerere University, the oldest and largest public university in Uganda.
He also holds the Licentiate in Dogmatic Theology and a Doctorate in Dogmatic Theology, both obtained from the Pontifical Urban University, in Rome, Italy.
In addition, he has another Diploma in Theology from Ggaba Major Seminary and a Diploma in Philosophy, obtained from Alokolum Seminary in Gulu, Uganda.
Father Maviiri began his teaching career in 1987 at St. Mbaaga Seminary in Ggaba, Uganda, teaching there until 1991.
From 1995 until 2002, he served as a lecturer, then senior lecturer and Associate Professor at Catholic University of Eastern Africa, in the Faculty of Theology.
From 2002 until 2011, he served as the Vice Chancellor of the Catholic University of Eastern Africa.
On 14 January 2015, he officially took over the office of Vice Chancellor at Uganda Martyrs University.
The Yacovelli v. Moeser case was a result of a summer reading program for new students implemented by the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 2002 that was objected to by several groups and was referred to by the media as the UNC-Qur'an Controversy.
Professor Carl W. Ernst of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC) was asked if there was a good translation of the Qur'an that would be suitable for its Summer reading program of 2002.
The program amounts to reading a short book, writing a short paper, and participating in small group discussion for two hours.
He suggested Ernst noted that if it were not available he couldn't recommend one for the program.
The book was adopted and the program set.
On May 21, 2002, conservative commentator Brit Hume of Foxnews released the first known news story on the forthcoming program followed by NPR on May 29.
Early responses from parents directly to the university were generally negative though others said it was a courageous choice.
Initially the ACLU and conservative commentators were concerned that a favoritism in religion was being shown.
The then Chancellor of UNC, James Moeser, began to appear in various news outlets reporting some of the negative feedback his office had received but supporting the program noting most of the incoming students were assumed to be Christian or Jewish with a comparative lack of understanding Islam and that part of the mission of the university, its "great function", was to help expand understanding of other cultures.
In July the The O'Reilly Factor covered the controversy followed in August the television shows Good Morning America and Nightline as the time of the reading program approached.
Public talking points included whether the effort respected the suffering in light of September 11 attacks or that was an initial approach to the subject of Islam, a natural subject for review in light of 9-11.
Under pressure, the university changed the implementation of the program for the incoming class of 4,200 freshmen and transfer students by asking those who objected to reading the book to write a one-page essay explaining their reasons.
Ultimately 2,260 freshmen took part on August 19 (after a court case ruled in favor of the university) in some 160 small group discussions led by one or more of 178 faculty and staff.
Significant news coverage began in July and continued through November 2002, while further analysis and recall of the experience continue to be published.
A conservative-Christian activist group, the Family Policy Network (FPN), filed suit in the U.S. District Court, Middle District of North Carolina, on July 22, 2002, representing several students who were allowed to remain anonymous seeking a preliminary injunction to keep UNC from conducting its summer program, alleging that it violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment and abridged students' rights to free exercise of religion by obliging them to study Islam against their will.
The case was entitled Yacovelli v. Moeser (after James Yacovelli, an FPN spokesman, and James Moeser, the UNC Chancellor).
The plaintiffs also asserted that the university through choosing Michael Sells book had misrepresented Islam by not by focusing on its more controversial elements.
The university countered that the implementation of allowing students who objected to the reading were allowed to submit a single page report with their reasoning and thereby opt out of reading the book, but still participate in the discussions, insured that there was no violation of the Constitution and sought to continue with the program.
The court ruled in favor of UNC, and FPN appealed to the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals, [Yacovelli v. Moeser, Aff’d, Case No.
02-1889, (4th Cir., Aug. 19, 2002)] but lost again.
Between the case and its first appeal North Carolina state government representative J. Sam Ellis was among those that sought to limit funding for the summer reading program when on August 7 the House Appropriations Committee voted to bar public funds for use in UNC's 2002 summer reading program, unless "all known religions are given equal treatment."
This proviso was removed when the state budget finally passed in mid-September.
The overall conclusion of Chief Judge N. Carlton Tilley, Jr., was that the book was strictly academic, not religious in nature, and therefore did not amount to a religious activity despite claims that listening to the CD exposes students to "the spell cast by a holy man of Islam" for example.
The judge ended his analysis with an application of the "Lemon test" deriving from the Lemon vs. Kurtzman court case.
Chief Judge Tilley said: <blockquote>"Approaching the Qur'an" simply cannot be compared to religious practices that have been deemed violative of the "Establishment Clause", such as posting the Ten Commandments, reading the Lord's Prayer, or reciting prayers in school.
The book does include surahs, which are similar to Christian Psalms.
However, by his own words, the author endeavors only to explain Islam and not to endorse it.
Furthermore, listening to Islamic prayers in an effort to understand the artistic nature of the readings and its connection to a historical religious text does not have the primary effect of advancing religion.< The university's lawyers observed that the U.S. Supreme Court endorsed the academic study of religion in public schools and universities when Justice Tom C. Clark in 1963 declared, "one's education is not complete without a study of comparative religion or the history of religion and its relationship to the advancement of civilization."
Based on this as it applies to the Qur'an specifically, university officials then argued that, in addition to being constitutionally permissible, one’s education is not complete without a study of the Qur'an (as well as the history of Islam) and its relationship to the advancement of civilization.
A revised challenge by the American Family Association's Center for Law and Policy, who had represented FPN all along, was filed in 2004, [Yacovelli v. Moeser, 2004 U.S. Dist.
LEXIS 9152, (M.D.N.C.
May 20, 2004)] which also lost on appeal, [Motion granted by, dismissed by Yacovelli v. Moeser, 324 F. Supp.
2d 760, 2004 U.S. Dist.
LEXIS 12815 (M.D.N.C., July 7, 2004)] addressed various challenges of presenting material online related to the program by ruling it was in fact just focused on presenting the program rather than religious instruction.
UNC's own count of news coverage includes some 41&nbsp;days, with some days having many news stories – for example, August 28 has 31 instances of coverage.
On August 27, C-SPAN covered Chancellor Moeser's speech at the National Press Club.
He noted many of the objections his office had received.
In addition to those already mentioned, many other news outlets covered the controversy,<ref>E.g.
:
Professor Erik Borgman (born 1957, Amsterdam) (sometimes listed as Eric Borgman) is a Dutch professor of systematic theology at the University of Tilburg, the Netherlands.
At the Radboud University Nijmegen, the Netherlands, he was the Director of the Heyendaal Institute, an institute for interdisciplinary research.
He is the biographer of the Flemish theologian Edward Schillebeeckx.
He was also the President of the International Society for Religion, Literature and Culture.
He is a member of the Editorial Board and the Presidential Board of Concilium: International Journal for Theology and also an editor of the Dutch Tijdschrift voor Theologie.
He studied philosophy and theology at the University of Nijmegen.
He wrote a dissertation on the different forms of Liberation Theology and their relation to academic Western theology (1990).
Francis Schüssler Fiorenza is an American theologian who currently holds the post of Stillman Professor of Roman Catholic Theological Studies at Harvard Divinity School.
Born Francis Fiorenza, as a young man he entered St. Mary's Seminary and University in Baltimore, Maryland, from which he earned the degree of Master of Divinity, even though he did not intend to pursue ordination.
</ref> In 1963 he won a fellowship to study theology in Germany under the Jesuit theologian Karl Rahner at the University of Munich.
Because that university would not accept doctoral candidates to work under Rahner, he instead enrolled at the University of Münster, where he eventually earned the degree of Doctor of Theology, having studied under Johann Baptist Metz and Joseph Ratzinger (the future Pope Benedict XVI).
It was while studying there that he met his future wife, Elisabeth Schüssler Fiorenza, a feminist Catholic theologian.
Rahner transferred to Münster two years later, so he was able to accomplish his original goal.
Now Francis Schüssler Fiorenza as a result of his marriage, he returned to the United States with his wife, where they obtained teaching positions at the University of Notre Dame in Indiana.
Subsequent to that, he taught at Villanova University in Pennsylvania, and The Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C.
In 1986, Fiorenza joined the faculty of the Harvard Divinity School, where his wife also became a professor.
His primary interests are in the fields of fundamental or foundational theology, in which he explores the significance of contemporary hermeneutical theories as well as neo-pragmatic criticisms of foundationalism.
His writings on political theology engage recent theories of justice, especially those of John Rawls and Jürgen Habermas, and have dealt with issues of work and welfare.
He has also written on the history of 19th- and 20th-century theology, focusing on both Roman Catholic and Protestant theologians.
Fiorenza was awarded the Henry Luce III Fellowship for 2005-06 for research in the history of 20th-century Roman Catholic theology, namely, the direction known as the nouvelle théologie ("new theology").
This was a school of thought which originated at the Jesuit seminary of Lyons, France, and the work of the Jesuit theologian Henri de Lubac, and which sought to explore a perspective in theology from the earlier roots of the Church, prior to Scholasticism and the theology of the Council of Trent.
Foundational Theology: Jesus and the Church is one of his earliest and best-known books.
He has published widely, with more than 150 essays in the areas of fundamental theology, hermeneutics, and political theology, as well as several other books.
José Luis Osvaldo Lira Pérez SS.CC.
(* Santiago, Chile, February 11, 1904 – † Santiago, December 20, 1996) was a Chilean priest, philosopher and theologian.
Author of more than 10 books on topics related to the philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas, as well as Ortega y Gasset and Juan Vázquez de Mella.
He devoted most of his life to teaching in different universities, and had as many followers as opponents.
José Luis Osvaldo Lira Pérez was born on February 11, 1904 in his maternal grandparents' house, at Catedral and Amunátegui streets (Catedral 1390), in Santiago.
His parents were Luis Lira Luco and María Cristina Pérez Valdés, both devout Catholics.
He was baptized on the day of his birth, in the parish of St. Anne.
His ancestry includes one of the fundamental figures of Chilean history, José Miguel Carrera, Osvaldo's great-great-grandfather.
His first studies were begun at home, where he learnt to read and write, and all the observant Catholic's background of prayers and devotions.
Within his family he was always known as Luis or Lucho.
In 1912, José Luis entered the Sacred Hearts School, where he stayed for eight years and was distinguished as the valedictorian.
It was during his junior year, being 14 years old, when he felt a vocation to the priesthood.
His father asked him to go to university before becoming a candidate for membership of the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts, so he studied engineering for one year, and law for another.
On May 4, 1922, when he was 18 years old, he entered the novitiate of the congregation where he had been educated, leaving behind the names of José Luis, while keeping his third baptismal name, Osvaldo.
In the scholasticate, novice Lira's professors were Fathers Adalberto Maury and Patricio Logan, who were key to his priestly formation.
During the scholasticate, he was a teacher of Spanish and Cosmography in the Sacred Hearts School in Valparaíso.
He was also a theology teacher for his own classmates in the novitiate, when Father Maury, the titular professor, had to leave and assigned him as his substitute.
On December 16, 1928, six years after entering the novitiate, Osvaldo Lira was ordained as a priest, and celebrated his first Mass as such on December 25 of the same year.
Father Osvaldo Lira began his teaching in the Congregation's schools in Valparaíso, Concepción and Santiago, settling down in the capital in 1934.
During this period, he was able to deepen his knowledge of philosophy, metaphysics and dogmatic theology.
He stood out for always teaching from the sources, without resorting to handbooks, but instead referring directly to the Holy Scriptures and St. Thomas Aquinas.
Living in Santiago, he met other great intellectuals of the time, with whom he shared his social and religious beliefs, as well as long talks and debates.
Among these intellectuals were Julio Philippi and Jaime Eyzaguirre, and together they studied Catholic social teaching in depth.
It was in these years that Fr.
Lira wrote his first articles in the magazine Estudios, which was edited by Eyzaguirre.
Father Lira was known for having advanced thoughts as well as for using a vehement tone, which got him into trouble with his superiors in the congregation, adding to this the great popularity he had among his students, Gonzalo Ibáñez Santa María said that “no one who has ever met him has remained indifferent to him”.
In 1939, eleven years after being ordained as a priest, during which time he had worked as a teacher for the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts, Fr.
Lira thought it necessary to leave the congregation, considering entering the Benedictines or joining the secular diocesan clergy.
It was monsignor Pío Fariña, auxiliary bishop for Santiago, who urged him to wait for better times.
A year later, in 1940, it was decided that he should travel to Europe, where he met the General Superior of the Congregation.
According to Julio Retamal Favereau, the influence of “some conservative leaders who branded Father Lira as advanced and even as a communist (!
)”, Retamal emphasizes that after this episode Father Lira never thought of retiring from the congregation, although he considered that they never encouraged, or showed any interest in, his intellectual action and production.
Father Osvaldo Lira traveled to Europe in 1940, arriving in Spain on May 15, after being in Belgium with his superiors before the country was invaded by the Germans.
He lived in Spain for twelve years, from 1940 to 1952, residing in Miranda de Ebro and Madrid.
It was in this country that he was able to complete his knowledge of Scholastic theology and Thomism.
Lira had written articles for magazines and made translations of books by Catholic authors, but it was in Spain that he wrote his first books, the first one being about Vázquez de Mella, a Spanish politician whose socio-political ideals the priest shared: Nostalgia de Vázquez de Mella (1942).
His other writings in Spain include Visión política de Quevedo (1948), La Vida en torno (1949) and Hispanidad y mestizaje (1952).
Living in Spain he met great writers and musicians, among the former Vicente Aleixandre, Dámaso Alonso and José María Pemán, and among the latter Joaquín Rodrigo, Ataúlfo Agenta and Joaquín Turina.
In 1978 the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile appointed him Professor Emeritus of the Philosophy Faculty.
In 1989 the same University awarded him the rank of Doctor Scientiae et Honoris Causa.
University Adolfo Ibáñez named him Honorary Academician.
Professor Juan Antonio Widow, in the prologue to the second edition of La Vida en Torno, published in 2004 for the centenary of Lira's birth, wrote: In the year 1994, University Adolfo Ibáñez together with Zig-Zag Publisher, released the book Padre Osvaldo Lira: En torno a su pensamiento.
Homenaje en sus 90 años ("Father Osvaldo Lira: As to his thoughts.
Tribute to his 90 years").
Just as the title indicates, the book was published as a homage to his 90 years (1904–1994).
The articles talk about Fr.
Osvaldo Lira's thoughts, and contain four biographical articles in his honor.
The rest of the articles are about the following topics: Theology, spirituality, philosophy, morality, politics, law, history and regarding some poets.
This is the largest work that has been done on the thought of Osvaldo Lira.
The articles were written by 35 professors and friends: Julio Retamal Favereau, Rafael Gambra, Enrique Díaz Araujo, Alberto Boixados, Mario Soria, R.P.
Raúl Sanchez Abelenda, Juan Roberto Pérez, Manuel Atria Ramírez, Guido Soaje Ramos, Féliz Adolfo Lamas, Juan Vallet de Goytisolo, Mirko Skarica, Juan Carlos Ossandón, Juan Antonio Widow, R.P.
Carlos Miguel Buela, Patricio H. Randle, Antonio Millán-Puelles, R.P.
Victorino Rodríguez, O.P., José Luis Widow, Luis Alberto Barnada, Miguel Ayuso, Gonzalo Larios, Alvaro Pezoa, R.P.
Alfredo Sáenz, S.J., Carlos Francisco Cáceres, Alejandro Guzmán Brito, Gonzalo Ibáñez Santa María, Héctor Herrera Cajas, Edberto Oscar Acevedo, Juan Vicente Ugarte del Pino, José Joaquín Ugarte, Bernardino Bravo Lira, Cristián Garay Vera, Rubén Calderón Bouchet, Bernardino Montejano and Alberto Falcionelli.
The Pentecostal church is one of the fastest-growing Christian denominations in Brazil.
The largest denomination is Roman Catholic, but as of 2006 Brazil had approximately 24 million Pentecostal Christians.
At some points, churches were appearing as rapidly as one church per day.
The growing movement in Brazil traces its roots to the Azusa Street Revival in 1906 in Los Angeles and, like Pentecostal movements in other countries, emphasizes a second act of grace following conversion that results in gifts of the Spirit such as glossolalia and healing.
Scholars organize the Pentecostal movement in Brazil into three types, or "waves", organized by both time periods and doctrinal shifts.
Europeans who converted to Pentecostalism in the United States were the first missionaries to bring the new movement to Brazil.
These first Pentecostal churches emphasized gifts of the spirit such as speaking in tongues, casting out demons, and prophesying.
In 1911 two Swedish missionaries, Gunnar Vingren and Daniel Berg, founded future Assemblies of God churches in northern Brazil.
Vingren and Berg avoided emphasizing social mobility or formal education because of their experiences of cultural marginalization in Sweden, which led to the development of national leadership within the Assemblies of God.
By 1930, the Brazilian Assemblies of God were autonomous from that of Sweden's and had churches in nearly every state in Brazil.
Post-1934 American missionaries began to arrive, but were generally not well-accepted in the existing national network of churches and missionaries virtually ceased post-1950's.
In 1910, an Italian man named Luigi Francescon founded a church in Sao Paulo which became the Christian Congregation.
This remains the largest Pentecostal church in the state of Sao Paulo, partially because it spread rapidly among the Italian population and was then assimilated into the larger culture.
It has between one and two million members.
Growth has slowed since the 1940s, in part because it is primarily a rural and small-town church.
The epicenter of the second wave of Brazilian Pentecostalism was Sao Paulo, beginning in the 1950s.
It differed from the first wave in its emphasis on healing as a gift of the Holy Spirit and its use of mass media to reach even greater parts of the Brazilian populace.
A former actor named Harold Williams helped start a Brazilian extension of Aimee Semple McPherson's L.A.-based Foursquare Gospel church in 1954.
It would eventually be called the IEQ, after several restructures from the "National Evangelization Crusade" to the "Crusade Church" to IEQ.
Perhaps because of its association with the Foursquare church, 35% of the IEQ's pastors are women, making it unique among the historical Brazilian churches.
By 1988, the church would become totally separate from the Los Angeles church.
It also began experiencing significant growth in the 1980s, becoming one of the fastest-growing churches in Brazil.
Brazil for Christ (BPC) was founded in 1955 and was the first major Pentecostal church to be founded by a Brazilian.
Manoel de Mello began as a preacher in the National Evangelization Crusade, but quickly left it to form his own church after accusations of charlatanism.
The BPC quickly became a staple in Sao Paulo religious life, even getting involved in politics (which most Pentecostal churches at that time left alone).
By the 1980s, however, the church's influence had diminished greatly.
The God Is Love church (IPDA) belongs to the second wave, with its founding in 1962 and use of the radio to reach large numbers of (mostly poor) Brazilians, but it precedes the Universal Church of the Kingdom of God in its reclamation of Catholic rituals and its attacks on religious beliefs based in Afro-Brazilian traditions like umbanda.
The third wave of Pentecostalism is sometimes referred to as neo-Pentecostalism or post-Pentecostalism, and is generally associated with the Universal Church of the Kingdom of God (IURD).
For this and several other churches like the International Grace of God Church, Rebirth in Christ, and Evangelical Community Heal Our Earth, the focus moved to curing, prosperity, and spiritual warfare against the evil spirits which are believed to populate the world.
The IURD was founded in Rio de Janeiro in 1977 by Edir Macedo.
In 1989, Macedo and the IURD purchased TV Record, at the time the Brazil's fifth-largest TV network, aiding in its evangelism.
It has about one and a half million members, mainly located in Rio, Sao Paulo, and Bahia.
For many reasons, the church has faced heavy public criticism, but one incident involved a bishop kicking the likeness of a popular saint.
IURD does not view the Catholic church favorably, but it does not see it as the real enemy.
It emphasizes spiritual warfare, in direct opposition to popular folk religions in Brazil like umbanda and candomble, which have their roots in Afro-Brazilian traditions and involve communing with spirits.
The IURD also emphasizes Prosperity theology, which has helped the church's popularity among poorer citizens of Brazil.
The church and the world are, if not completely opposing, two very distinct things to Pentecostals, who tend to be concerned with individual salvation and sanctification and so see the church as a community of faith nurturing that journey.
Modern Pentecostal churches in Brazil also emphasize healing and driving out of demons versus the traditional mark of the gifts of the spirit, glossolalia.
In Assemblies of God churches, tithing is an important part of their beliefs.
It is seen as an empowering act which contradicts the giver's poverty because they could be spending their money on food or other items but are instead giving it to the poor.
In IURD, prosperity theology is central to their teaching.
The church says that rewards for faith should be expected in this life, a teaching which becomes very plausible in the context of the urban poor which comprise much of IURD's membership.
And while it separates wealth and salvation, the IURD emphasizes that entrepreneurship and perseverance are important parts of showing faith that God will provide.
Pentecostals compose about 15% of all Brazilian Christians.
Since Brazil's transition to a democracy, several Pentecostal churches have become involved in politics.
Voting is compulsory in Brazil, but Pentecostal churches traditionally took a hands-off approach to politics, preferring to think of the church as apolitical until organizations like the Assemblies of God and the IURD entered politics and won several seats in the national Congress.
Pentecostal churches tend to emphasize a citizen's duty rather than their rights, and do not speak very much about citizenship.
This is not, however, because they do not care about society, but rather because the churches provide immediate answers to problems found in the everyday lives of poor people, which leads to greater citizenship even if it not explicitly stated.
And, while Pentecostals tend to be morally conservative, they are found across the political spectrum and can even lean to the political left on certain issues.
August Hermann Francke (22 March 1663, Lübeck 8 June 1727, Halle) was a German Lutheran clergyman, philanthropist, and Biblical scholar.
Born at the German city Lübeck, Francke was educated at the gymnasium in Gotha before he studied at the universities of Erfurt and Kiel — where he came under the influence of the pietist Christian Kortholt — and finally Leipzig.
During his student career he made a special study of Hebrew and Greek; and in order to learn Hebrew more thoroughly, he for some time put himself under the instructions of Ezra Edzardi at Hamburg.
He graduated at Leipzig, where in 1685 he became a Privatdozent.
A year later, by the help of his friend P. Anton, and with the approval and encouragement of Philipp Jakob Spener, he founded the Collegium Philobiblicum, at which a number of graduates met regularly for the systematic study of the Bible, philologically and practically.
He next spent some months at Lüneburg as assistant or curate to the learned superintendent, K. H. Sandhagen, and there his religious beliefs deepened.
On leaving Lüneburg he spent some time in Hamburg, where he became a teacher in a private school, and made the acquaintance of Nikolaus Lange.
After a long visit to Spener, at that time a court preacher in Dresden, Francke returned to Leipzig in the spring of 1689, and began to give Bible lectures of an exegetical and practical kind, at the same time resuming the Collegium Philobiblicum of earlier days.
He soon became popular as a lecturer; but the peculiarities of his teaching almost immediately aroused a violent opposition on the part of the university authorities; and before the end of the year he was interdicted from lecturing on the ground of his alleged pietism.
That was how Francke's name first came to be publicly associated with that of Spener, and with pietism.
Prohibited from lecturing in Leipzig, Francke in 1690 found work at Erfurt as "deacon" of one of the city churches.
Here his evangelistic fervour attracted multitudes to his preaching, including Roman Catholics, but at the same time excited the anger of his opponents; and the result of their opposition was that after a ministry of fifteen months he was commanded by the civil authorities (September 27, 1691) to leave Erfurt within forty-eight hours.
That same year Spener was expelled from Dresden.
In December, through Spener's influence, Francke accepted an invitation to fill the chair of Greek and oriental languages in the new University of Halle, which was at that time being organized by the elector Frederick III of Brandenburg; and at the same time, the chair having no salary attached to it, he was appointed pastor of Glaucha in the immediate neighbourhood of the town.
He afterwards became professor of theology.
Here, for the remaining thirty-six years of his life, he discharged the twofold office of pastor and professor with energy and success.
At the very outset of his labours, he had been profoundly impressed with a sense of his responsibility towards the numerous outcast children who were growing up around him in ignorance and crime.
After a number of tentative plans, he resolved in 1695 to institute what is often called a "ragged school," supported by public charity.
A single room was at first sufficient, but within a year it was found necessary to purchase a house, to which another was added in 1697.
In 1698 there were 100 orphans under his charge to be clothed and fed, besides 500 children who were taught as day scholars.
The schools grew in importance and were later known as the Franckesche Stiftungen.
The education given was strictly religious.
Hebrew was included, while the Greek and Latin classics were neglected; the Homilies of Macarius took the place of Thucydides.
A chemist, whom Francke had visited on his deathbed, bequeathed to him the recipe for compounding certain medicines, which afterward yielded an annual income of more than $20,000, and made the institution independent.
Shortly after its founding, the institution comprised an orphan asylum, a Latin school, a German (or burgher) school, and a seminary for training teachers for these establishments.
Although Francke's principal aim was religious instruction, he also taught natural science and physical exercises and manual trades.
And he ran an apothecary's shop, and a printing press for publishing cheap copies of the Bible.
At the time of Francke's death, the schools were frequented by more than 2,300 pupils.
Francke's schools provided a prototype which greatly influenced later German education.
In his university teaching as well, he gave great emphasis to religion.
Even as professor of Greek, he had given great prominence in his lectures to the study of the Scriptures; but he found a much more congenial sphere when, in 1698, he was appointed to the chair of theology.
Yet his first courses of lectures in that department were readings and expositions of the Old and New Testament; and to this, as also to hermeneutics, he always attached special importance, believing that for theology a sound exegesis was the one indispensable requisite.
"Theologus nascitur in scripturis," he used to say; but during his occupancy of the theological chair he lectured at various times upon other branches of theology also.
Amongst his colleagues were Paul Anton, Joachim J. Breithaupt and Joachim Lange—men who shared his beliefs.
Through their influence upon the students, Halle became a centre from which pietism became very widely diffused over Germany.
Under Francke's influence, Christian missionary efforts were greatly enhanced, zeal was aroused and recruits for Christian missions were gained, and Halle also became the center for Danish-Halle Mission to India.
Francke's principal contributions to theological literature were: Manuductio ad lectionem Scripturae Sacrae (1693); Praelectiones hermeneuticae (1717); Commentatio de scopo librorum Veteris et Novi Testamenti (1724); and Lectiones paraeneticae (1726-1736).
The Manuductio was translated into English in 1813, under the title A Guide to the Reading and Study of the Holy Scriptures.
An account of his orphanage, entitled Segensvolle Fußstapfen, (1709), which subsequently passed through several editions, has also been partially translated, under the title The Footsteps of Divine Providence: or, The bountiful Hand of Heaven defraying the Expenses of Faith.
Liberation theology has been described as "an interpretation of Christian faith out of the experience of the poor...an attempt to read the Bible and key Christian doctrines with the eyes of the poor", or "the message of the gospels", restored from "the first three centuries [of Christianity in which] it was ... a pacifist ... religion of the poor".
Detractors have called it Christianized Marxism.
The best-known form of liberation theology is that which developed in Latin America in the 1950s, however various other forms of liberation theology have since developed, including Asian, Black, and Palestinian liberation theologies.
Although liberation theology has grown into an international and inter-denominational movement, it began as a movement within the Catholic Church in Latin America in the 1950s and 1960s.
Liberation theology arose principally as a moral reaction to the poverty and social injustice in the region.
The term was coined in 1971 by the Peruvian priest Gustavo Gutiérrez, who wrote one of the movement's defining books, A Theology of Liberation.
Other noted exponents include Leonardo Boff of Brazil, Jon Sobrino of Spain, and Juan Luis Segundo of Uruguay.
Latin American liberation theology met opposition in the United States, which accused it of using "Marxist concepts", and led to admonishment by the Vatican's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF) in 1984 and 1986.
The Vatican rejected certain forms of Latin American liberation theology for focusing on institutionalized or systemic sin; and for identifying Catholic Church hierarchy in South America as members of the same privileged class that had long been oppressing indigenous populations from the arrival of Pizarro onward.
Liberation theology could be interpreted as an attempt to return to the gospel of the early church where Christianity is politically and culturally decentralized.
Liberation theology proposes to fight poverty by addressing its alleged source: sin.
In so doing, it explores the relationship between Christian theology (especially Roman Catholic) and political activism, especially in relation to social justice, poverty, and human rights.
The principal methodological innovation is seeing theology from the perspective of the poor and the oppressed.
For example, Jon Sobrino, S.J., argues that the poor are a privileged channel of God's grace.
Some liberation theologians base their social action upon the Bible scriptures describing the mission of Jesus Christ, as bringing a sword (social unrest), e.g., , , — and not as bringing peace (social order).
This Biblical interpretation is a call to action against poverty, and the sin engendering it, to effect Jesus Christ's mission of justice in this world.
Gustavo Gutiérrez gave the movement its name with his book A Theology of Liberation (1971).
In this book, Gutiérrez combined populist ideas with the social teachings of the Catholic Church.
He was influenced by an existing socialist current in the Church which included organizations such as the Catholic Worker Movement and the Jeunesse Ouvrière Chrétienne, a Belgian Christian youth worker organization.
He was also influenced by Paul Gauthier's The Poor, Jesus and the Church (1965).
Gutiérrez's book is based on an understanding of history in which the human being is seen as assuming conscious responsibility for human destiny, and yet Christ the Savior liberates the human race from sin, which is the root of all disruption of friendship and of all injustice and oppression.
Gutiérrez also popularized the phrase "preferential option for the poor", which became a slogan of liberation theology and later appeared in addresses of the Pope.
Drawing from the biblical motif on the poor, Gutiérrez asserts that God is revealed as having a preference for those people who are “insignificant", "marginalized", “unimportant", "needy", "despised", and "defenseless".
Moreover, he makes clear that terminology of "the poor" in scripture has social and economic connotations that etymologically go back to the Greek word, ptōchos.
To be sure, as to not misinterpret Gutiérrez’s definition of the term "preferential option", he stresses, "Preference implies the universality of God’s love, which excludes no one.
It is only within the framework of this universality that we can understand the preference, that is, 'what comes first'."
Gutiérrez emphasized practice (or, more technically, "praxis") over doctrine.
Gutiérrez clarified his position by advocating a circular relationship between orthodoxy and orthopraxis seeing the two as having a symbiotic relationship.
Gutierrez' reading of prophets condemning oppression and injustice against the poor (i.e., Jeremiah 22:13–17) informs his assertion that to know God (orthodoxy) is to do justice (orthopraxis).
Cardinal Ratzinger (later Pope Benedict XVI), however, criticized liberation theology for elevating orthopraxis to the level of orthodoxy.
Richard McBrien summarizes this concept as follows: <blockquote>God is disclosed in the historical "praxis" of liberation.
It is the situation, and our passionate and reflective involvement in it, which mediates the Word of God.
Today that Word is mediated through the cries of the poor and the oppressed.< Another important hallmark for Gutiérrez's brand of liberation theology is an interpretation of revelation as "history".
<blockquote>History is the scene of the revelation God makes of the mystery of his person.
His word reaches us in the measure of our involvement in the evolution of history.< Gutiérrez also considered the Church to be the "sacrament of history", an outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace, thus pointing to the doctrine of universal salvation as the true means to eternal life, and assigning the Church itself to a somewhat temporal role, namely, liberation.
A major player in the formation of liberation theology was CELAM, the Latin American Episcopal Conference.
Created in 1955 in Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), CELAM pushed the Second Vatican Council (1962–65) toward a more socially oriented stance.
However, CELAM never supported liberation theology as such, since liberation theology was frowned upon by the Vatican, with Pope Paul VI trying to slow the movement after the Second Vatican Council.
More or less at the same time as the initial publications of Latin American Liberation Theology we also find voices of Black liberation theology and feminist liberation theology as well.
After the Second Vatican Council, CELAM held two conferences which were important in determining the future of liberation theology: the first was held in Medellín, Colombia, in 1968, and the second in Puebla, Mexico, in January 1979.
The Medellín conference debated how to apply the teachings of Vatican II to Latin America, and its conclusions were strongly influenced by liberation theology.
Although liberation theology grew out of these officially recognized ideas, the Medellín document is not a liberation theology document.
It did, however, lay the groundwork, and since then liberation theology has developed rapidly in the Latin American Catholic Church.
Cardinal Alfonso López Trujillo was a central figure at the Medellín Conference, and was elected in 1972 as general secretary of CELAM.
He represented a more orthodox position, becoming a favorite of Pope John Paul II and the "principal scourge of liberation theology."
Trujillo's faction became predominant in CELAM after the 1972 Sucre conference, and in the Roman Curia after the CELAM conference in Puebla, Mexico, in January 1979.
Despite the orthodox bishops' predominance in CELAM, a more radical form of liberation theology remained much supported in South America.
Thus, the 1979 Puebla Conference was an opportunity for orthodox bishops to reassert control of the radical elements; but they failed.
At the Puebla Conference, the orthodox reorientation was met by strong opposition from the liberal part of the clergy, which supported the concept of a "preferential option for the poor."
This concept had been approved at the Medellín conference by Bishop Ricard Durand, president of the Commission about Poverty.
Pope John Paul II gave the opening speech at the Puebla Conference.
The general tone of his remarks was conciliatory.
He criticized radical liberation theology, saying, "this idea of Christ as a political figure, a revolutionary, as the subversive of Nazareth, does not tally with the Church's catechesis"; however, he did speak of "the ever increasing wealth of the rich at the expense of the ever increasing poverty of the poor," and affirmed both the principle of private property and that the Church "must preach, educate individuals and collectivities, form public opinion, and offer orientations to the leaders of the peoples" towards the goal of a "more just and equitable distribution of goods".
Some liberation theologians, however, including Gutiérrez, had been barred from attending the Puebla Conference.
Working from a seminary and with aid from sympathetic, liberal bishops, they partially obstructed other clergy's efforts to ensure that the Puebla Conference documents satisfied conservative concerns.
Within four hours of the Pope's speech, Gutiérrez and the other priests wrote a 20-page refutation, which was circulated at the conference, and has been claimed to have influenced the final outcome of the conference.
According to a socio-political study of liberation theology in Latin America, a quarter of the final Puebla documents were written by theologians who were not invited to the conference.
One of the most radical aspects of liberation theology was the social organization, or reorganization, of church practice through the model of Christian base communities (CBCs).
Liberation theology strove to be a bottom-up movement in practice, with Biblical interpretation and liturgical practice designed by lay practitioners themselves, rather than by the orthodox Church hierarchy.
In this context, sacred text interpretation is understood as "praxis".
Liberation theology seeks to interpret the actions of the Catholic Church and the teachings of Jesus Christ from the perspective of the poor and disadvantaged.
By approaching theology "from the perspective of the poor", Liberation Theologians believe that they can turn the poor who are "the object of church teaching to the subject of church action" (Edward Russell).
In Latin America, liberation theologians specifically target the severe disparities between rich and poor in the existing social and economic orders within the nations' political and corporate structures.
It is a strong critique of the various economic and social structures, such as an oppressive government, dependence upon First World countries and the traditional hierarchical Church, that allow some to be extremely rich while others are unable to even have safe drinking water.
The journalist and writer Penny Lernoux described this aspect of liberation theology in her numerous and committed writings intended to explain the movement's ideas in North America.
Base communities were small gatherings, usually outside of churches, in which the Bible could be discussed, and Mass could be said.
They were especially active in rural parts of Latin America where parish priests were not always available, as they placed a high value on lay participation.
In May 2007, it was estimated that 80,000 base communities existed in Brazil.
Contemporaneously, Fanmi Lavalas in Haiti, the Landless Workers' Movement in Brazil, and Abahlali baseMjondolo in South Africa are three organizations that make use of liberation theology.
The Brazilian Catholic Church is arguably one of the most theologically progressive Catholic congregations due, in large part, to a history of violent military and political conflicts as well as a divisive socioeconomic climate.
During Brazil's military rule from 1964 to 1985, the Catholic Church and its members assumed responsibility to provide services to the poor and disenfranchised, often under threat of persecution.
The Vatican II and Medellín conference innovations in liberation theology entered the Brazilian Church as the Brazilian lower classes experienced sharply deteriorating economic and political conditions.
Among these were an increase in landownership concentration, a decline in wages and standards of living, and a rise in the military state's political repression and violence, including mass detainment, torture, and the assassination of political opponents.
After decades of repression from the government authorities, the liberationist Catholic Church in Brazil is absent of traditional centralization and encourages an increased lay participation.
Faced with a severe priest shortage, much of the Brazilian Catholic Church is organized into Base Ecclesial Communities or, "CEBs" in which the Mass, community spirituality programs, and community needs are led or addressed by a single clergy member or a trained lay member in either a small chapel or an individual's home.
The CEBs introduced new social ideas and democratic methods which led to many participants' active involvement in popular movements of Brazil that worked for progressive social change.
An example of progressive social change initiated by the CEBs is in Nova Iguaçu.
A health program began there to try to organize the population in order to remedy widespread malnutrition, open sewers, and other health hazards.
Eventually the neighborhood initiative reached a national interest level where it then became a mass movement in nearly every neighborhood.
Initiatives like the health program in Nova Iguaçu illustrate how CEBs have helped the transition from military to democratic rule.
While liberation theology has brought about significant progressive reforms in Brazil, anthropologist Robin Nagle questions the effectiveness of Catholic Church theology in Brazil.
Nagle concentrates on the conflict between conservatives and liberationists in Recife, Brazil, in 1990.
The poor neighborhood of Morro da Conceição had a liberationist priest named Reginaldo who was expelled by the traditionalist archbishop because the archbishop found Reginaldo's politics and social theology annoying and adverse to his own agenda.
When Reginaldo and his followers refused to accept the expulsion and the new priest, the archbishop called in the Military Police.
Conversely, the event did not cause a mass response because the liberationist agenda aroused distrust and even hatred among many of its intended audience.
The main reason was that it was too much to ask poor parishioners to embrace a Church focused more on the troubles of this life than solace in the next.
While Robin Nagle claims that liberation theology is ineffective for genuine social change, anthropologist Manuel Vásquez argues that liberation theology embraced by CEBs create a twofold effect, because it not only provided moral justification for resistance but it also served as a means to organize the resistance.
Many people come to the CEB through conversion experiences, but also because they are keenly concerned with the spiritual and infrastructural needs of their community.
Through his fieldwork in working-class neighborhoods of Rio de Janeiro, Vásquez reveals that CEBs combat disenfranchisement but also serve to overcome the obstacles associated with materialism and globalization.
The social and political impact can be viewed in terms of initial consciousness-raising, the motivation for involvement, the sense of community they develop, the experience of grassroots democracy, the direct actions they engage in, and finally, directly political actions.
Anthropologist and author Max Maranhão Piorsky Aires analyzes the influence of liberation theology on the transformation of the indigenous Tapeba people of Brazil from poor, uneducated inhabitants neglected by the state to rights-bearing and involved citizens.
Specifically he largely attributes the work of the Brazilian Catholic Church to the progression of the Tapeba.
The Catholic Church enlisted state authorities, anthropologists, and journalists to help uncover the identity of neglected indigenous peoples of Brazil.
Early recognition by missionaries and followers of liberation theology stimulated indigenous identiﬁcation of the Tapeba population as a possibility for attaining rights, especially land, health, and education.
The Church gathered and contributed historical knowledge of indigenous territory and identity of the Tapeba in Caucaia that ultimately succeeded in the tribes obtaining a legally codified identity as well as a rightful place as Brazilian subjects.
In Gurupá, the Catholic Church employed liberation theology to defend indigenous tribes, farmers, and extractors from land expropriation by federal or corporate forces.
New religious ideas, in the form of liberation theology, have fortified and legitimized an evolving political culture of resistance.
Meanwhile, the Church-supported Base Ecclesial Communities (CEBs) have promoted stronger social connections among community members that has led to more effective activism in Gurupá.
Anthropologist Richard Pace's study of Gurupá revealed that CEBs assured safety in united activism, and, combined with liberation theology, encouraged members to challenge landowner's commercial monopolies and fight for better standards of living.
Pace references a specific incident in the CEB of Nossa Senhora de Fátima, in which a community of 24 families of farmers, timber extractors, and traders resisted an extra-regional timber extraction firm.
The community negotiated an agreement with the firm that gained them a higher standard of living that included imported goods, increased food availability, and access to health care.
While severe social dislocations such as government-initiated capitalist penetration, land expropriation, and poor wages persist, small-farmer activism is fortified by liberation theology and receives structural support from unions, political parties, and church organizations.
In March 1983, Cardinal Ratzinger (later Pope Benedict XVI), head of the Vatican's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF), made ten observations of Gutiérrez's theology, accusing Gutiérrez of politically interpreting the Bible in supporting temporal messianism, and stating that the predominance of orthopraxis over orthodoxy in his thought proved a Marxist influence.
Ratzinger objected that the spiritual concept of the Church as "People of God" is transformed into a "Marxist myth."
In liberation theology he declared, the "'people' is the antithesis of the hierarchy, the antithesis of all institutions, which are seen as oppressive powers.
Ultimately anyone who participates in the class struggle is a member of the 'people'; the 'Church of the people' becomes the antagonist of the hierarchical Church."
Cardinal Ratzinger did praise liberation theology in some respects, including its ideal of justice, its rejection of violence, and its stress on "the responsibility which Christians necessarily bear for the poor and oppressed".
He subsequently stated that no one could be neutral in the face of injustice, and referred to the "crimes" of colonialism and the "scandal" of the arms race.
Nonetheless, media reports tended to assume that the condemnation of "liberation theology" meant a rejection of such attitudes and an endorsement of conservative politics.
In 1984, it was reported that a meeting occurred between the CDF and the CELAM bishops, during which a rift developed between Ratzinger and some of the bishops, with Ratzinger issuing official condemnations of certain elements of liberation theology.
These "Instructions" rejected as Marxist the idea that class struggle is fundamental to history, and rejected the interpretation of religious phenomena such as the Exodus and the Eucharist in exclusively political terms.
Ratzinger further stated that liberation theology had a major flaw in that it attempted to apply Christ's sermon on the mount teachings about the poor to present social situations.
He asserted that Christ's teaching on the poor meant that we will be judged when we die, with particular attention to how we personally have treated the poor.
Ratzinger also argued that liberation theology is not originally a "grass-roots" movement among the poor, but rather, a creation of Western intellectuals: "an attempt to test, in a concrete scenario, ideologies that have been invented in the laboratory by European theologians" and in a certain sense itself a form of "cultural imperialism."
Ratzinger saw this as a reaction to the demise or near-demise of the "Marxist myth" in the West.
Throughout the 1990s, Ratzinger, as prefect of the CDF, continued to condemn these elements in liberation theology, and prohibited dissident priests from teaching such doctrines in the Catholic Church's name.
Leonardo Boff was suspended and others were censured.
Tissa Balasuriya, in Sri Lanka, was excommunicated.
Sebastian Kappen, an Indian theologian, was also censured for his book Jesus and Freedom.
Under Cardinal Ratzinger's influence, theological formation schools were forbidden from using the Catholic Church's organization and grounds to teach liberation theology in the sense of theology using unacceptable Marxist ideas, not in the broader sense.
According to Roberto Bosca, an historian at Austral University in Buenos Aires, Father Jorge Bergoglio (later Pope Francis) had "a reputation as an opponent of liberation theology during the 1970s" but he "accepted the premise of liberation theology, especially the option for the poor, but in a 'nonideological' fashion."
Before becoming Pope, Bergoglio said, "The option for the poor comes from the first centuries of Christianity.
If you were to read one of the sermons of the first fathers of the Church, from the second or third centuries, about how you should treat the poor, you’d say it was Maoist or Trotskyist.
The Church has always had the honor of this preferential option for the poor...At the Second Vatican Council the Church was redefined as the People of God and this idea really took off at the Second Conference of the Latin-American bishops in Medellín."
Bosca said Bergoglio was not opposed to liberation theology itself but to "giving a Catholic blessing to armed insurgency", specifically the Montoneros, who claimed liberation theology as part of their political ideology.
Blase Bonpane, a former Maryknoll father and founding director of the Office of the Americas, said "The new pope has not been comfortable with liberation theology."
On September 11, 2013, Pope Francis hosted Fr.
Gutiérrez in his residence, leading some to comment that this was a sign of warming relations between the hierarchy and liberation theologians.
The same month, L'Osservatore Romano published an article praising Gutiérrez by the prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, Archbishop Gerhard Müller.
On January 18, 2014, Pope Francis met with Fr.
Arturo Paoli, an Italian priest whom the Pope knew from Paoli's long service in Argentina.
Paoli is recognized as an exponent of liberation theology avant la lettre and the meeting was seen as a sign of "reconciliation" between the Vatican and the liberationists.
Miguel d'Escoto, a Maryknoll priest from Nicaragua, had been sanctioned with an a divinis suspension from his public functions in 1984 by Pope John Paul II, for political activity in the leftist Sandinista government in Nicaragua.
Pope Francis lifted the suspension in August 2014, in response to a request by d'Escoto.
At a 2015 press conference in the Vatican hosted by Caritas International, the federation of Catholic relief agencies, Fr.
Gutiérrez noted that while there had been some difficult moments in the past dialogue with the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, liberation theology had never been condemned.
Although he saw an increasingly clear emphasis on Church teachings on the poor, he did not consider that liberation theology was undergoing a rehabilitation, since it had never been "dishabilitated".
Palestinian liberation theology is a form of contextual theology that represents an attempt by a number of independently working Palestinian theologians from various denominations—mostly Protestant mainline churches—to articulate the gospel message in such a way as to make that liberating gospel relevant to the perceived needs of their indigenous flocks.
As a rule, this articulation involves a condemnation of the State of Israel, a theological underpinning of Palestinian resistance to Israel as well as Palestinian national aspirations, and an intense valorisation of Palestinian ethnic and cultural identity as guarantors of a truer grasp of the gospel by virtue of the fact that they are the indigenous inhabitants of the land of Jesus and the Bible.
The principal figure in Palestinian liberation theology is the Anglican cleric Naim Ateek, founder of the Sabeel Ecumenical Liberation Theology Center in Jerusalem.
The National Council on Bible Curriculum in Public Schools (NCBCPS) is a nonprofit, fundamentalist religious organization that promotes the use of its 300-page Bible curriculum, The Bible in History and Literature, in schools throughout the United States.
It has been criticized as being inaccurate, and presenting biased promotion of a particular religious interpretation of the Bible as well as an unbalanced view of American history which promotes specific religious beliefs.
The use of the curriculum has been challenged in lawsuits in two school districts, which have withdrawn the course as contravening the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.
NCBCPS was founded on April 8, 1993, by Elizabeth Ridenhour, a Greensboro, NC, paralegal.
The organization's annual 990 tax forms, available on Guidestar.org, list Ridenhour as an ordained minister.
According to the organization's Web site, "312 U.S. school districts in 37 states have educated 175,000 of their students using the Bible curriculum as a public high school elective."
A 2006 report, "Reading, Writing and Religion: Teaching the Bible in Texas Public Schools," by Bible scholar Dr. Mark Chancey of Southern Methodist University found that in Texas, "the number of Texas school districts using the NCBCPS curriculum, 11, is less than a fourth of the 52 claimed by the NCBCPS itself.
Adding the very few school districts known to have used the course in the past... does not significantly change the total number.
The NCBCPS markets its course by strongly emphasizing the large number of school districts that supposedly teach it; as of late July 2006, its Web site claimed that its curriculum is currently offered in 362 districts nationwide.
Such oft-repeated claims now appear to be quite inaccurate.
If the situation in Texas is representative, the curriculum is probably actually taught in only a few dozen districts."
The NCBCPS web site states that the organization's curriculum "has never been legally challenged", and features an opinion from four lawyers claiming the course to be constitutional.
Whilst the NCBCPS itself has not been sued, two school boards have been for adopting the NCBCPS materials in their district: A federal lawsuit on behalf of eight parents in Odessa, Texas, was filed on May 16, 2007 against the Ector County school board.
The suit was brought by the ACLU of Texas, the People For the American Way Foundation and the law firm of Jenner & Block.
The suit alleged that the course promotes certain religious beliefs to the exclusion of others.
The Ector County School Board was represented by Liberty Legal Foundation.
In a May 17, 2007 article in the Odessa American, ECISD trustee L.V.
"Butch" Foreman III said he did not understand how the parents could sue the school board since they do not have children taking the course.
"If they don't have children in the class, they can kiss my butt," Foreman said.
On March 5, 2008, the lawsuit was settled with an agreement by the Ector County School Board to cease teaching NCBCPS materials in its public schools after that current school year.
The course offered was taught as an elective in two high schools and was described as unconstitutionally promoting a particular interpretation of the Bible that is not shared by Jews, Catholics, Orthodox Christians, and most Protestants.
Bible scholars had seriously criticized the course as lacking accuracy, ignoring scholarly research, promoting a particular religious interpretation of the Bible, and presenting an unbalanced view of American history which promoted specific religious beliefs.
According to the settlement, any Bible course Ector County schools offer in the future cannot be based on the NCBCPS curriculum, and must follow strict legal standards for objectivity and balance.
One of the plaintiffs, an ordained elder and deacon at a local Presbyterian Church, said that it was inappropriate for one set of religious beliefs to be promoted over others, and that "It seems as though a church had invaded the public school system – and it wasn’t my church".
The ACLU’s Director of Litigation said in a press release that “We trust that any future curriculum will be appropriate for students of all faiths – including nonbelievers – and that it will respect the religious liberty of all Odessans.” The Lee County School Board (Florida) was sued while using the NCBCPS curriculum, for "unconstitutionally advancing religion in public school classrooms."
According to the website of People for the American Way Foundation, which represented the plaintiffs in the suit (Gibson v. Lee County School Board), "In January 1998, the court issued a preliminary injunction that prohibited the teaching of the 'New Testament' curriculum and allowed the 'Old Testament' curriculum to be taught only under strict monitoring.
The court also ordered the two sides to begin settlement negotiations.
"After the court's ruling, the Board agreed to settle the case by withdrawing the 'Old Testament' and 'New Testament' curricula it had adopted and replacing them with a new, objective and non-sectarian course based on a textbook called "An Introduction to the Bible."
In the Winter 2007 issue of the Baylor Law Review, Amanda Colleen Brown reviewed the NCBCPS' The Bible in History and Literature and the Bible Literacy Project's The Bible and Its Influence (59 Baylor L. Rev.
193).
The author subjects both curricula to three legal tests used by the Supreme Court to determine the legality of Bible courses, and concludes that the NCBCPS curriculum is "unfit for use in public school classrooms," while the Bible Literacy Project's curriculum "comports with constitutional standards, thus making it a viable alternative to the NCBCPS curriculum."
Brown argues that a key problem with the NCBCPS curriculum is that it consists of only a teacher's guide, with no student textbook.
In 1999, the Attorney General of Georgia, Thurbert Baker, issued an opinion stating that the state's proposed adoption of the NCBCPS courses could not be assured that they would survive a legal challenge.
On August 1, 2005, Dr. Mark Chancey, professor of Biblical studies at Southern Methodist University, released a report through the Texas Freedom Network detailing his concerns about the scholarly quality of the curriculum.
Chancey stated that the curriculum was improperly sectarian, and contained "shoddy research, factual errors and plagiarism."
In particular, Chancey wrote that the curriculum "uses a discredited urban legend that NASA has evidence that two days are missing in time, thus 'confirming' a biblical passage about the sun standing still [pp.
116–17];" and that more than one-third of the curriculum's 300 pages are reproduced word-for-word from uncredited sources such as Microsoft's Encarta encyclopedia.
Hundreds of Biblical scholars at universities around the United States have signed on as endorsers of Chancey's findings.
The NCBCPS responded with an August 4 press release asking the public to "consider the source."
The release described the Texas Freedom Network as "a small group of far left, anti-religion extremists ... desperate to ban one book – the Bible – from public schools.
The Chicago Tribune Editorial Board, in an editorial published July 7, 2007, stated that "The folks at the National Council are right on one count: The Bible should be taught in public schools.
But they shouldn't be the ones to do it."
The editorial criticised the NCBCPS for not releasing the names of the authors of the curriculum and for "sloppy editing, factual errors and outright copying, word for word, from sources."
The Editorial Board noted that "The National Council is not the only option school districts have.
A competing curriculum (The Bible and Its Influence) offered by the Bible Literacy Project, a non-profit group, has been vetted, accepted and praised by a wide range of scholars, critics and education officials."
Where the Curriculum Has Been Adopted: Where the Curriculum Has Been Rejected:
Abol Hussein Tanhai (born 15 Persian date Farvardin 1330, Isfahan ) was a sociologist in Iranian.
After passing primary and secondary education and receiving a bachelor's degree in psychology and philosophy, he was on the way of America and he was achieved the master's degree in sociology and anthropology.
In 1981, he obtained a doctoral degree in sociology and anthropology under Herbort Bloomer, who is the father of tension between the symbolic academy.
Under his regard, he was able to tuition the theories of sociology.
He then advised from Bloomer to teach and writing sociology issues theory, and now he is one of the faculty member of IAU university and also he is the Head of Department of Sociology in center Tehran branch.
and Ph.D. in sociology 110 Guide This article previously published in the Journal of Contemporary Sociology of science and research branch ofteharan Islamic azad university no of 4 in fall of 1389.R Review of abstract in existing survey methodology appears in Weber,Weber's ideal type model is known to have been faced with two ambiguities: the once disregard Marx's influence on Weber's methodology and the other looking static ideal type.This paper seeks to review these two methodological ambiguitiesespecially in Weber's ideal type.
This article has been published in sociology journal of Islamic azad university of Ashtyan branch no of three fall 1384.T ThisAbstract presents the theoretical analysis of the root and foundation of the theory of Bourdieu's sociology of knowledge.The analysis of Marx's theoretical foundation has started and the advice of some expertsIn Marx's theory of epistemology has continued to work for Mead and at the end with comparing epistemology Bloomer and form common ground for a final review of Bourdieu's epistemology ….
This article first published in Journal of Social Research ofRoodehen University no of 6 spring 1389.
Professor HosseinabolhasanTanhaie and Prof.Shamsikhormai .T This article examine the relationship between religious beliefs and lifestyle, based on sociological theory of Goffmanin Kermanshah in 1389.T This review is intended to measure the relationship between religious beliefs and lifestyle.
with regardKermanshah is a city of customs and traditional beliefsalthough the spread of urbanization and life style is modern and new but still beliefs and religious beliefs on their lifestyle has not yet mastered.This study used a theoretical framework based on theory and method of ErvingGoffman “who is the theorist of oriented symbolic interaction school” has been done.The researcher is trying toexamine the relationship between religious beliefs and lifestyle of people in front of and behind of the scenes of their lives and this relationship in these situations will be explored and explained to achieve these objectives, field methods and techniques of participatory observation and informal interviews were used to be able to observe people closely and from Informal group of people has also interviewed.
In this study researcher has been studied the persons in two front position and a position behind the scenes.The survey results suggest that the people in front of the stage shows the scenes that is acceptable by others and culture.
In back front position people have more scope because they are not under the subject and the society low because they are not play a role to keep their social altitude.
People in back front are more likely to themselves till the people in front of the scence that shows the socialized of their role.
However the results show that there is a connection between religuose beliefs and life style though in front of the scence or in back front.
Previously this article published in Iranian Society of Cultural Studies and Communication newsletter in Tehran University Faculty of Social Sciences no of 11 and 12, spring and summer 1390.
Abstract: Beginning with a formal and professional sociology in the middle modern era, grand strategy in sociology such an important and inevitable part of the field was known.برآیند هم بودگی, especially, theoretical coherence at orientation and macro strategy, in the eyes of a prospective readers creating and spreading this belief was naive that sociology is possible only by means of a macro strategy and any tendency to tiny guidelines or tendency to action theory is bringing up.
This article has been published in sociology journal of Islamic azad university of Ashtyan branch no of 2 year 4 and summer 1387.
Abstract: This article is trying to resist common methods of quantitative research in sociology not only in completely introducing the procedure of qualitative research methods in sociology but also just take a look on the part of the analysis in qualitative methodology voting Goffman some features in the situation analysis shows.
Finally, this model is applied in a sample historical analysis of the macro is ended.
This article has been published in sociology journal of Islamic azad university of Ashtyan branch Prof. HosseinabolhasanTanhaie and MahnazAlizade.
Abstract: This article lists the theoretical framework derived from theories of Goffman, Erikfroom, Herbert Blumer, Rabert Merten, Jorgen Habermas, Zigmond Froid and Carl Gostav Young is developed and then, to test hypotheses derived from a field theoretical framework in three steps which are survey and documentation has been paid.
This study has been carried out in society of fellowship of freedom in east of Tehran.
The result shows that addiction treatment through team building functions have direct and indirect impacts in disposition and action rehabilitation in addicts.
Abstract: What is the message to Wall Street?What is the goal of people who are tired of the inability of the government's?
andwhat goal are looking to accomplish?Is there any economical and political aspects in this movement?
Abstract: Sociology Alavi is a kind of sociology of religion; the sociology of religion and religion sociology are different.
Sociology of religion means that it gets its principles from God's law and religious books and in accordance, it can be stated School of sociology and the sociology of religion and axioms are not provable in any school and these are the obvious tenet that we are accept them as a right tenet from some books such a Quran, Gospel or Avesta.
Some people thought that sociology of religion does not mean because in sociology the main issue is the only study and they say we can not have Islamic physic so sociology of religion is not acceptable.
The human form the society and its important for human to notice the structure of society and it recognize the truth and false of component and the relationship between them.
So they try to find a model that they can convert the unhealthy society to healthy society.
In the sociology of religion an ideal society is interpreted based on religious precepts.
Abstract: Oriented interpretation in terms of the wisdom sociology is divided into three categories: Oriented interpretation of European and German are in the opposite side of American oriented interpretation.Oriented interpretation of European and German are also have differences in terms of the sociology wisdom with each other.Oriented interpretation of European knows the human to authorize to act in order to be compatible with the system.
In oriented interpretation of European the relation between the action and relational structure is adaptation objective and cohesion objective.
the situation in Europe is due to the government.
Of course the important point is although Weber is a German sociologist but his oriented interpretation is European.
But although Germany is a European country but this country has an especial oriented interpretation.Germany due to conflict-oriented, kingdom of Tyranny, Severe dictatorship etc., they thought people are taken off they know Intellectual stratum as the actor.In America, unlike Europe where people were immigrants, people should form cultural and Social organizations.
Social and cultural organizations existence is possible only with the action.
But in Europe these formations are made before and people should make themselves register with those formations.
The main characters of American are Mead, Bloomer, Goffman.
The main concept in oriented interpretation is action and the biggest mistake about this phrase is imagining individually at all times.
There is difference between continuous and symbolic character Action in thought of Bloomer.
Hobby Lobby is a chain of retail arts and crafts stores based in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, formerly called Hobby Lobby Creative Centers.
The stores are managed by direct corporate hires.
By the start of 1989, the chain had about 15 stores.
By late 1992, it had grown to 50 locations in seven states, and its growth continued to accelerate.
Its 100th store opened in August 1995, and its 200th in August 1999.
By March 2002, that number had grown to 281 stores in 24 states, and 310 by October 2003. , the chain has 600 stores nationwide with the headquarters building in a manufacturing, distribution, and office complex.
Hobby Lobby stores and facilities are open for business every day with the exception of Sunday due to Green's Christian beliefs.
He wanted his employees to have more time to spend for worship, rest, and family, even at the expense of profits.
Hobby Lobby sites play a mixture of light jazz, classical, bluegrass, contemporary, and a variety of music styles such as pop and country over their speakers in stores, distributed by satellite from the Oklahoma City headquarters to each store.
A large percentage of the music also incorporates old elevator music.
Rather than using a barcode system, the company uses manual pricing for product ordering and accounting.
The website states they "continue to look at and review the option of scanning at the registers but do not feel it is right for [them] at this time".
David Green has taken a public stance against the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, citing its inclusion of a provision mandating that companies provide access to the morning-after pill, which some consider an abortifacient.
In September 2012, Hobby Lobby filed a lawsuit against the United States over new regulations requiring health insurance provided by employers to cover emergency contraceptives, stating: "(t)he Green family's religious beliefs forbid them from participating in, providing access to, paying for, training others to engage in, or otherwise supporting abortion-causing drugs and devices".
Hobby Lobby argued that the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution and the Religious Freedom Restoration Act serve to protect their religious beliefs, and accordingly bars the application of the contraceptive mandate to them.
The U.S. Supreme Court rejected the company's application for an injunction, prompting the firm to sue the federal government.
On July 19, 2013, US District Judge Joe Heaton granted the company a temporary exemption from the contraceptive-providing mandate.
In contrast, on January 28, 2014, the Center for Inquiry filed an amicus brief with the Supreme Court arguing that were the court to grant Hobby Lobby an exclusion which permitted the company to exclude any specific healthcare service from its provision to employees on the basis of the owners' religious beliefs, the firm would violate the Establishment Clause, also part of the First Amendment.
The Establishment Clause states: "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion".
Oral arguments in the case, then known as Sebelius v. Hobby Lobby, were heard on March 25, 2014.
On April 1, 2014, Mother Jones stated that the employee 401(k) plan, for which Hobby Lobby matches employee contributions, has more than $73 million invested in mutual funds, some of which invest in manufacturers of contraception, including some forms which are specifically named in the complaint, even though there exist several boutique mutual funds that specifically screen companies that are not in line with their client's religious beliefs.
On June 30, 2014, the Supreme Court ruled 5-4 that Hobby Lobby and other "closely held" stock corporations can choose to be exempt from the law based on religious preferences, based on the Religious Freedom Restoration Act but not on the First Amendment.
In September 2013, a shopper reported being told by a store employee, in Marlboro, New Jersey, Hobby Lobby did not carry merchandise celebrating Jewish holidays.
While the store carried Christmas items, they did not carry items related to bar mitzvah, Hanukkah, or Passover.
The store employee told the shopper these items were not sold due to the owner's Christian values.
In response, Hobby Lobby apologized for the employee's comments, stating that it has carried Jewish holiday items in the past and would do so in test areas beginning in November 2013.
Dr. Lewis Ayres, a lay Catholic theologian, is Professor of Catholic and Historical Theology at Durham University in the United Kingdom.
Between 2009 and 2013 he served as the inaugural holder of the Bede Chair of Catholic Theology at Durham.
Lewis Ayres was born and educated in the UK, completing his M.A.
at the University of St. Andrews (1988) and his D.Phil.
at Merton College, Oxford University (1994).
He has taught in the UK, in Ireland at Trinity College Dublin and in the United States at Duke University and Emory University.
The core of his research has been Trinitarian theology in Augustine and in the Greek writers of the 4th century.
Ayres's period of research into patristic pneumatology has resulted in a collaborative translation of patristic texts on the Holy Spirit, but as yet the much anticipated monograph on the subject has not appeared.
Besides Trinitarian theology in this pivotal period he is also interested in the later development of Trinitarian theology and in the place of Scripture in Early Christianity – both the history of Christian reading practices from the late 2nd century and the history of what can be termed the theology of Scripture itself.
He is at present writing a monograph that will concern the shifts in Patristic exegesis between AD 150 and 250.
It is provisionally entitled As It Is Written: Ancient Literary Criticism and the Rise of Scripture AD 100–250.
Ayres claims "a number of interests in modern Catholic fundamental and dogmatic theology – as will be evident from the last chapter of Nicaea and some of the articles I have published."
That chapter of Ayres's book was subject to sustained critical attention by Maurice Wiles, in the latter's review of the book (Journal of Theological Studies 56.2 (2005): 670–675).
Wiles's sharpest criticism is that Ayres fails to show that his approach "is compatible with modern changes in our understanding of the scriptural grounds of the doctrine [sc., of the Trinity] and its development in the early patristic period."
With reference to two specific examples, Wiles characterises Ayres's 'way of reading the scriptural text' as 'forced and unconvincing'.
Wiles connected these interpretive practices with Ayres's underlying conception of the Church.
Ayres also declares strong interest in the place of Scripture (and Tradition) in modern Catholic theology and the fundamental structure of Catholic theology.
He is convinced that the ideological and professional divisions that have arisen between Scripture scholars, "systematic" and "historical" theologians have served Catholic theology ill.
He believes that ressourcement theologians have offered us many resources that can move us beyond these divisions, but much further work is necessary for their agenda to be taken forward.
In the hopes of contributing to this debate he is working on a book for Blackwells entitled Resting in the Word.
With his wife, Medi Ann Volpe (PhD: Duke University, 2006), he is also co-editing the Oxford Handbook of Catholic Theology (hopefully forthcoming in 2015).
He has co-edited the Blackwells series Challenges in Contemporary Theology for the past 18 years.
He also serves on the editorial boards of the Journal of Early Christian Studies, Modern Theology and Augustinian Studies.
Together with Michel Barnes, Associate Professor of Theology at Marquette University, Rowan Williams, and several others, Ayres is part of a rereading of Augustine's trinitarian theology that breaks with the older neoplatonic-centered account.
In his 2007 doctoral dissertation, Keith Edward Johnson referred to this new reading as "New Canon" Augustine scholarship.
From a footnote in Johnson's dissertation (p.&nbsp;108 n. 189), that name would appear to have been taken from a publication by Barnes; however, the bibliography does not provide further details.
The basis of the New Canon reading of Augustine was worked out in the years 1995–2000, during which Ayres and Barnes conducted an almost daily common reading and discussion, via e-mail, of Augustine's trinitarian writings.
The mutuality of Barnes' and Ayres' partnership is evident from the following comments in their respective papers, "Remember you are Catholic" and "Rereading Augustine on the Trinity":
Black theology refers to a variety of Black theologies which have as their base the liberation of the marginalized, especially the injustice committed against African Americans and black South Africans during American segregation and apartheid, respectively.
Black theology mixes Christianity with the civil rights and Black Power movements.
Intricate and largely philosophical views of God are largely ignored in preference for the concerns of the oppressed.
The Old Testament God of Moses freeing the ancient Hebrews from Egyptian rulers was the central theme of African American popular religion, as well as, abolitionists like Harriet Tubman.
White Christian concepts taught to black persons that they are to be disregarded or ignored.
The aspects of God's person, his power and authority, as well as "subtle indications of God's white maleness" are said not to relate to the black experience, to the extent of sometimes being antagonistic.
While trinitarian theology is a big concern, Jesus is still considered to be God.
The focus is given to God's actions, and his delivering of the oppressed because of his righteousness.
Immanence is stressed over transcendence, and as a result God is seen to be "in flux" or "always changing".C Charts of Christian Theology and Doctrine by H. Wayne House</ref> Many believe Jesus Christ to be God's son, or God incarnated.
Many blacks believe that he came to save the world from sin.
This is also a common belief among white people, as well as the Asians and Mexicans.
Black theology is not bound to biblical literalism, but is of a more pragmatic nature.
Only the experience of black oppression is the authoritative standard.
Salvation is a collective freedom from the oppression and pertains to blacks in this life.
Proponents of black theology are concerned specifically with the political and theological aspects of salvation more than the spiritual.
In other words, salvation is physical liberation from white oppression, or "The white enemy" (Cone) rather than freedom from the sinful nature and acts of each individual person.
Presenting heaven as a reward for following Christ is seen as an attempt to dissuade blacks from the goal of real liberation of their whole persons.
"A white man who is in power cannot be a Christian, unless he gives up that power and gives it to the black man" - James Cone on Black Theology The church is the focus of social expression in the black community where the Black church can express freedom and equality.
Thus the church and politics have formed a cohesion where the theological expression of the desire for social freedom is carried out.
Black theologies were popularized in southern Africa in the early 1970s by Basil Moore, a Methodist theologian in South Africa.
It helped to give rise to, and developed in parallel with, the Black Consciousness Movement.
Black theology was particularly influential in South Africa and Namibia for motivating resistance to apartheid.
Southern African black theologians include Barney Pityana, Allan Boesak, Itumeleng Mosala and Zephania Kameeta.
In the United Kingdom, Dr Robert Beckford is a prominent black theology practitioner.
He was the first in the UK to develop and teach a course on Black Theology at an academic level.
Black Theology: An International Journal is published in the UK.
It is edited by Anthony Reddie, who has written over 40 journal articles, essays and books and is the most prolific black theology author in the UK today.
The University of St. Michael's College is a college of the University of Toronto, founded in 1852 by the Congregation of St.
Basil of Annonay, France.
While mainly an undergraduate college for liberal arts and sciences, St. Michael's retains its Roman Catholic affiliation through its postgraduate divinity school.
St. Michael's is most closely associated with teaching and research in the humanities.
It is also known for being home to Marshall McLuhan throughout his influential career as a philosopher and communication theorist, from 1946 until his death in 1980.
The Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies resides within the college.
St. Michael's College School is an affiliated boys school which was once the high school section of the college.
St. Michael’s College was founded in 1852 as a Basilian college by Pierre Tourvieille, Superior General of the Congregation of St.
Basil of Annonay, France.
The following year, it merged with St. Mary's Lesser Seminary under the unified control of the Basilian Fathers, whose establishment in Canada began with Bishop Armand-François-Marie de Charbonnel.
St. Michael's College educated pupils at three levels, operating as a preparatory school, as a liberal arts college, and as a minor seminary.
The Basilians received a large estate in 1853 from John Elmsley, son of the Chief Justice of Upper Canada and a prominent philanthropist.
St. Michael's College relocated to the new site east of the University of Toronto, and established the college parish, St.
Basil's Church.
The incorporation of the college was granted Royal Assent in 1855.
In the late 19th century when universities were closed to new Irish immigrants and many Canadians of Irish descent, St Michael's was seen as the only viable option and thus the school became a traditionally Irish filled college.
Ever since this time St Michael's has been a bastion for higher education and a beacon for the Irish-Canadian community in Toronto and southern Ontario, with others coming from all over the rest of Canada to attend the dominantly Irish school.
By withdrawing its financial support in 1868, the provincial government encouraged denominational colleges to seek closer relations with secular institutions.
St. Michael's affiliated with the University of Toronto in 1883, having secured a guarantee that it would conduct its own teaching in philosophy and history.
The university senate authorized St. Michael's to administer its own examinations in philosophy.
On December 8, 1910, St. Michael’s College became a federated college of the University of Toronto.
The college maintained autonomy in faculty hiring and teaching in liberal arts subjects, while the University of Toronto governed examinations and the granting of degrees in all subjects except theology.
In 1912, Sir Robert Falconer, president of the University of Toronto, recognized the wish of St. Joseph's College and Loretto College to affiliate with the university.
St. Joseph's and Loretto both became colleges of St. Michael's College, thereby allowing their female students to receive University of Toronto degrees.
As the 20th century began, professional education expanded beyond the traditional fields of theology, law and medicine.
Graduate training based on the German-inspired American model of specialized course work and the completion of a research thesis was introduced.
With the opening of the Institute of Mediaeval Studies in 1929, St Michael’s expanded further into graduate teaching and research.
Ten years later, Pope Pius XI signed a papal charter creating the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies.
The preparatory school division of the college was reorganized in 1950 as St. Michael's College School, an independent private school, ending the college's direct governance while maintaining its affiliation.
In 1952, the last lectures for women were held at Loretto and St. Joseph's Colleges, which became residential units of the college.
Thereafter, all teaching was conducted coeducationally in the classrooms of St. Michael's College.
Throughout much of its history, St. Michael's benefited from a common practice whereby staff and faculty who were members of religious orders would donate their salaries back to the college.
This source of income gradually disappeared as new faculty members were hired with mainly secular backgrounds, compelling the college to seek new revenue.
The college's first modern fundraising attempt was launched in 1927, but was only partly successful due to the onset of the Great Depression.
The Basilian Fathers of St. Michael's College was registered as a charitable organization in 1972.
Subsequent campaigns and land sales allowed the college to gradually increase its endowment, expand its academic programs and construct new residence buildings.
The Canadian Catholic Bioethics Institute became affiliated with St. Michael's College in 2001.
In 2002, the college marked the sesquicentennial of its founding with an anniversary mass held in St.
Basil's Church.
The oldest buildings of St. Michael's College were constructed on the original Clover Hill estate donated by John Elmsley, and were designed by noted Scottish architect William Hay.
With subsequent land acquisitions in 1890, 1920, 1926 and 1928, the college expanded from Clover Hill westward to reach Queen's Park.
The present grounds of St. Michael's College form the eastern end of the University of Toronto campus, with Victoria College to the north and Regis College to the south.
The main quadrangle of St. Michael's College is in the northwestern section of the college grounds, with its northern side leading into Victoria College.
The cornerstone was laid at Clover Hill on September 16, 1855, for the college building and the college parish of St.
Basil's Church, which was consecrated November 16, 1856.
This building is the oldest building at the University of Toronto in continuous academic use.
A further addition, designed by William Irving, was constructed between 1872 and 1873 to house an auditorium, classrooms and student residence.
In 1996, the original building was completely renovated by Carlos Ott Partnership Architects and renamed Odette Hall, and a modern religious art gallery donated by Rev.
Daniel Donovan was installed on the two lower floors.
Several Victorian homes on the former Elmsley estate survive as student residences at the St Michael's campus.
The master plan and Collegiate Gothic complex of buildings at the western side of the college nearest to Queen's Park were built in 1935 and designed by architect Arthur William Holmes in Gothic revival style: the Pontifical Institute, More House, Fisher House, Brennan Hall (1938) and Teefy Hall (1935-6) and extension of the East Wing, (1902–03).
Brennan Hall in the north-central section of campus contains a dining hall, faculty dining room, common rooms, and guestrooms.
Fisher House and More House both began as residences for men, while classrooms and faculty offices were located in Teefy Hall to the south.
The Queen's Park Building to the north was built for the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies.
A student-faculty centre was built in 1968 as an extension of Brennan Hall.
The Soldier's Memorial Slype connects the college quadrangle with Queen's Park, its sandstone walls etched with the names of St. Michael's College alumni who fought in the World Wars and the Korean War.
Examples of early post-war architecture at the college include Carr Hall, designed by Ernest Cormier and built in 1954, housing faculty and administrative offices, classrooms and an auditorium.
At the northern edge of campus, Elmsley Hall was built in 1955 as a men's residence and a new residence for the Loretto College was built in 1958.
The brutalist concrete building of the John M. Kelly Library was opened in 1969, at the southern portion of the college on St. Joseph Street.
The former Ontario Research Council building next to the library has been redesigned with classrooms and offices as the Muzzo Family Alumni Hall.
St. Michael's College comprises the Faculty of Theology, the Division of Continuing Education, and its namesake undergraduate division, St Michael's College.
Within the University of Toronto Faculty of Arts and Science, St. Michael's College sponsors the academic programs of book and media studies, Celtic studies, Christianity and Culture, Mediaeval studies and the Concurrent Teacher Religious Education Program.
In 1996, the French and German departments of the University of Toronto took up residence on the St Michael’s campus, followed in 2000 by the departments of Italian and Slavic studies.
After a reorganization in 1954, degrees in theology have been through the Faculty of Theology of St. Michael's College.
In 1969, the Faculty of Theology became one of the founding colleges of the Toronto School of Theology, an ecumenical federation of the theological colleges at the University of Toronto.
The undergraduate division of St. Michael's College joined the undergraduate divisions of six other University of Toronto colleges in 1974 to reorganize its academic departments into the University of Toronto Faculty of Arts and Science.
In 2005, the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies was reconstituted as an affiliated institution of St. Michael's College.
Marshall McLuhan was hired as a member of faculty at St. Michael's College in 1946, and taught English literature at the college until his death in 1980.
During this time he became famous and influential for his books The Mechanical Bride (1951), The Gutenberg Galaxy (1962), and Understanding Media (1964), in addition to his oft-quoted aphorisms on communications and media such as "the medium is the message".
The John M. Kelly Library is the main library at St. Michael's College, and is part of the University of Toronto's mass digitization partnership with the Internet Archive.
Although the library building was opened in 1969, the library collection dates back to the earliest days of the college.
The collection has since been developed in support of undergraduate programmes in the Faculty of Arts and Science, graduate programmes in the Faculty of Theology, and programmes of the college's continuing education division.
In addition to more than 300,000 bookform volumes, the library maintains subscriptions to almost 500 journals and magazines and has the largest suite of public computers on the east side of the University of Toronto campus.
The Kelly Library's collection has representation mainly in the areas of humanities and social sciences, particularly in book history, media studies, philosophy, Celtic history, languages and literature, Canadian history, English literature, and Medieval history.
The theological collection emphasizes patristics, early and medieval church history, Thomism, the Bible (especially Canon, Johannine literature, and the history of criticism), liturgical renewal, religious education, and Catholic missions.
There are also extensive archival special collections including substantial holdings of G. K. Chesterton, John Henry Newman, early printed books, and the papers of Henri Nouwen and Sheila Watson.
Historically strong in athletics, St. Michael's students are known as the "Bay Street Fighting Irish", a reference to the Catholic sports powerhouse of the University of Notre Dame in the United States.
Toronto's current Ontario Hockey League franchise, the St. Michael's Majors, is the descendant of the College's once elite ice hockey team (the team is now operated by St. Michael's College School).
On December 7, 2006, St Mike’s defeated the Faculty of Physical Education 5 goals to 4 to become the undisputed champions of the University of Toronto’s Division 1 hockey league for that season.
Within the secular environment of the University of Toronto, the Catholic traditions of St. Michael's are still evident in its college programs, fellows' interests, and student activities.
Thus far, the college has largely avoided stirring controversy in its move toward coeducational residences.
Unlike the coeducational residences at other colleges of the university, male and female students at St. Michael's reside on different floors of the residences.
Women students may choose to live at the single-sex Loretto College residence; men are permitted to visit Loretto during designated guest hours.
The dons at Loretto and other residences of St. Michael's College are graduate, senior undergraduate and professional faculty students.
The college's dining hall, the Canada Room, has recently been expanded and renovated and its hours have been extended.
The residences for St. Michael's students are Elmsley Hall Residence (Elmsley First, Mallon House, McBrady House, and Soulerin House), The Queen's Park Residence (Fisher House, More House, and Teefy House), the Historic Houses (formerly named as McCorkell House, Sullivan House, Gilson House, and Maritain House), and Sorbara Hall Residence (Lower Level, Murphy First (unofficial name), Second Floor, Fontbonne House, and Wall House).
<gallery class="center"> File:Marshall McLuhan.jpg|Marshall McLuhan File:Jacques Maritain.jpg|Jacques Maritain File:CharlesCouglinCraineDetroitPortrait.jpg|Charles Coughlin File:Paul Martin in 2011 crop.jpg|Paul Martin File:LaurierLaPierre.JPG|Laurier LaPierre File:Chancellor Birgeneau at Berkeley.jpg|Robert J. Birgeneau File:Bonnie Crombie.jpg|Bonnie Crombie </gallery>
Mary Elizabeth (Mullino) Moore is an educator, writer, and current dean of the Boston University School of Theology in Boston, Massachusetts.
She has also been a professor of religion and education at the Claremont School of Theology, as well as Emory University, where she served as the director of the Women in Theology and Ministry Program.
Moore has written on topics of socio-economic justice, and socio-ecological renewal, and throughout her career has significantly contributed to the dialogue between theology and education.
Mary Elizabeth Mullino was born to James Ogle Mullino and Elizabeth Heaton in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
After graduating with a B.A.
and M.A.
from Southern Methodist University in 1968, Moore earned a Ph.D. from the Claremont School of Theology.
In 1976, she married Allen Moore, with whom she parented five children.
Moore is an ordained deacon in the United Methodist Church.
On January 1, 2009, she succeeded Ray L. Hart as Dean of Boston University School of Theology.
She is the first woman to hold the position of dean at the Boston University School of Theology, and is the fifth woman to hold a presidential role at a United Methodist Church theological school.
Moore has published more than 50 articles and book chapters since 1982.
The School of Theology and Religious Studies is one of the twelve schools at The Catholic University of America, located in Washington, D.C. and one of the three ecclesiastical schools at the university, together with the School of Canon Law and the School of Philosophy.
The school is part of the main campus in the Brookland neighborhood in Northeast D.C. On September 24, 2014, CUA president John Garvey announced that he had appointed the Very Reverend Mark Morozowich, Dean of the School of Theology and Religious Studies, as interim provost of The Catholic University of America for the remainder of the 2014-2015 academic year.
Fr Morozowich has served as dean of the School of Theology and Religious Studies since July 2012.
President Garvey also announced that Monsignor Paul McPartlan, the Carl J. Peter Professor of Systematic Theology and Ecumenism, had agreed to serve as the acting dean of the School of Theology and Religious studies during this interim period.
The School of Theology and Religious Studies offers either Civil, Ecclesiastical, or Pastoral degrees:
Oliver D. Crisp (born 1972) is a British theologian who currently works as a professor of systematic theology at Fuller Theological Seminary in Pasadena, California.
Crisp was, until 2011, a reader in divinity at Bristol University in the United Kingdom.
He specializes in analytic theology, philosophical theology, and historical theology.
His historical work focuses on eighteenth- and nineteenth-century American Reformed theologians, including Jonathan Edwards and William Shedd.
His constructive work has, to date, primarily been in the areas of Christology and hamartiology.
He earned his Bachelor's degree and Masters of Theology from the University of Aberdeen.
He received his Ph.D from the University of London in 2003.
His thesis focused on the philosophical theology of Jonathan Edwards, and was supervised by Paul Helm.
He is the author or editor of seven books and has written numerous articles in theology.
The covers of Crisp's singly authored works often feature his own art.
Crisp is an Evangelical and Reformed Calvinist Christian and attends a Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) church.
Feminist Theology is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes papers four times a year in the field of Theology.
The journal's editors are Lisa Isherwood (University of Winchester), Lillalou Hughes, Beverley Clack (Westminster Institute of Education) and Janet Wootton.
It has been in publication since 1992 and is published by SAGE Publications in association with the Britain and Ireland School of Feminist Theology (BISFT).
Feminist Theology, whilst academic in its orientation, aims to be seen as accessible to a wide range of readers, whether theologically trained or not.
The journal provides a forum for the discussion of contemporary issues in a practical perspective.
Feminist Theory is abstracted and indexed in the following databases:
The Doctor of Practical Theology (DPT, DPTh) is a professional doctorate developed for those serving church, non-profit, public, and private sector organizations, seeking to apply theological principles to their professional practice.
The typical degree candidate is a part-time student who continues full-time professional responsibilities.
The modern development of this program in the U.K. (DPT) has been greatly influenced by educators and other professionals affiliated with the Association of Practical Theology[1] (APT).
The Doctor of Practical Theology is typically a multidisciplinary program designed for consideration, reflection, examination and application of theological principles appropriate to practice-based settings.
Further, it serves as a foundation for an original project contributing to solutions and development of the student's organization and/or profession.
The Doctor of Practical Theology customarily integrates theological concepts into the context of professional practice.
The Doctor of Practical Theology is applicable to: The Doctor of Practical Theology (DPTh) is rarely offered today in U.S.
Most U.S. seminary and divinity schools have transitioned their degree studies in practical theology to majors within programs leading to the Doctor of Ministry (D.Min), Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and Doctor of Arts (DA).
The specialized program is still offered in France (DThP), and more recently, the U.K. (DPT).
Elmer Towns (born 1932) is co-founder of Liberty University, the largest private, non-profit university in the world.
Towns is also a prominent Christian leader, author and speaker on the principles of church growth, church leadership, Christian education, Sunday School, and prayer and fasting.
He has authored over 170 books, 8 of which are listed on the Christian Booksellers Association Best Selling List.
In 1995, he received the Gold Medallion Award from the Evangelical Christian Booksellers Association for Book of the Year in Biblical Study, The Names of the Holy Spirit.
Most recently Towns served as Dean of the B. R. Lakin School of Religion, Dean of Liberty University Baptist Theological Seminary and Distinguished Professor of Systematic Theology at Liberty University.
In the Fall of 2013, Towns announced he would be taking a sabbatical from his teaching and administration duties to focus on speaking and writing.
On October 21, 1932, Elmer Leon Towns, Jr. was born to Elmer Leon Towns, Sr., and Erin McFaddin Towns in Savannah, Georgia, the oldest of three children.
Senior Towns was a clerk at a local hardware store.
Though Elmer Sr. made middle class wages, his addiction to alcohol strained the family’s finances and eventually claimed his life.
Despite the difficulties at home, Towns Jr. was consistent in attending Eastern Heights Presbyterian Church as an adolescent, though he believes his real conversion to Christianity was in 1950, at the edge of his bed following an evangelistic meeting earlier in the evening.
Towns attended Columbia Bible College for three years (1950-1953) before transferring his senior year to Northwestern College in Minneapolis, Minnesota and completing his Bachelor of Arts degree.
He also married his wife Ruth Jean Forbes in 1953.
He then attended Dallas Theological Seminary in pursuit of a Master of Theology degree.
While in that program, Towns also enrolled in Southern Methodist University to study for a Master of Arts degree in Education.
He received both Masters degrees in 1958.
A teaching post at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School moved Towns to Deerfield, Illinois, where he earned his Masters of Religious Education from nearby Garrett-Evangelical Theological Seminary in Evanston, Illinois in 1967.
Following an extended break from being a student, he attended Fuller Theological Seminary and received a Doctor of Ministry degree in 1983.
Towns’ work in ministry began at the age of 19, when he re-opened and was pastor of Westminster Presbyterian Church in Savannah, Georgia in 1952.
Towns commuted to Savannah for ministry during his junior year at Columbia Bible College, and oversaw the church grow from being closed to over 100 attendees.
While attending graduate school at Dallas Theological Seminary, Towns attended and later joined the First Baptist Church of Dallas.
Towns’ affiliation with First Baptist Church was the catalyst for his career-spanning interest in church growth and promotion of large, vibrant congregations.
First Baptist Church also introduced Towns to the importance of Sunday School as an education and retention tool within the Church.
Also during his time in Dallas, Towns taught philosophy at Dallas Bible College, served as Education Director for Southwest Baptist Tabernacle and pastor of Faith Bible Church.
Following seminar graduation from Dallas Theological Seminary, Towns accepted an assistant professorship in Christian Education at Midwest Bible College in St. Louis, Missouri.
Towns was instrumental in helping the college achieve accreditation, and the experience earned him a place on the Accrediting Association of Bible Colleges(AABC).
Towns’ involvement with AABC led to his selection in 1961 as president of Winnipeg Bible Institute and College of Theology in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada (now Providence University College and Theological Seminary).
During his tenure the college became accredited, doubled enrollment and increased fundraising efforts.
In 1965, he became Associate Professor of Christian Education at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in Deerfield, Illinois.
A year later Towns became the Sunday School editor of Christian Life magazine, which he held for 22 years.
Both of these appointments corresponded with a remarkable increase in published works from him.
Both posts also provided Towns with an environment for gathering and analyzing data on Sunday Schools, Christian education and church growth through the use of yearly surveys, interviews and church attendance records.
This combination of sociology and ministry to create models for church growth was unique.
Towns used the editorial appointment to communicate to a national audience through articles and books his vision for effective Sunday School teaching and church growth, eventually becoming a leading figure in the field of Christian education.
It was during this period that Towns released his first research compilation in the ground-breaking bestselling book The Ten Largest Sunday Schools and What Made Them Grow.
The reception for this book was so overwhelming that Towns used his position at Christian Life to publish the list the 100 largest Sunday Schools annually for ten years.
Also during this period he became an advisory board member for the Evangelical Teacher Training Association and authored a textbook and two teacher manuals.
In 1970, Jerry Falwell believed he was called to establish an institute of higher learning.
Falwell, then pastor of Thomas Road Baptist Church, began a fund-raising campaign and started researching candidates to help lead the school.
Falwell and Towns had met previously during the preparation for The Ten Largest Sunday Schools and What Made Them Grow, as Thomas Road Baptist Church was number nine on the list.
Towns’s academic work in Christian Education and previous experiences with the college accreditation process made him a strong candidate.
In 1971, Falwell and Towns co-founded Lynchburg Bible College in Lynchburg, Virginia (now Liberty University), with Falwell in an executive and fund-raising role and Towns as academic director and the school’s only full-time instructor.
In 1973, Towns left Lynchburg Bible College on sabbatical and became a consultant for the consolidation of seven small Bible colleges into Baptist University of America, in Atlanta, Georgia.
He then served as Vice President and Academic Dean.
In 1977, Towns returned to Lynchburg Bible College as Editor-in-Chief of all publications.
During this time, Towns was editor of Faith Aflame, and started and edited Fundamentalist Journal and The Journal Champion (later renamed the Moral Majority Report).
He was named Dean of the seminary in 1979, and then two years later, Dean of the B.R.
Lakin School of Religion, a position he still holds.
Under his leadership, the School of Religion received accreditation in 1984 and started a doctoral program in 1987.
During Towns academic career, he has given theological lectures and seminars at over 111 theological seminaries and colleges worldwide.
He holds visiting professorship rank in five seminaries and received six honorary doctoral degrees.
He has published over 2,000 reference and/or popular articles.
Five doctoral dissertations have analyzed his contribution to religious education and evangelism.
In 1983, Towns joined with Larry Gilbert to found the Church Growth Institute, Inc. for the purpose of creating and distributing educational content and seminars on the area of church growth for local congregations (both pastors and laymen).
A popular seminar on Sunday School revitalization was attended by over 60,000 people in the first five years it was offered.
The most recognizable contribution by the Institute to the ministry community was the creation of the Friend Day program, in which congregation members were encouraged to invite non-believing friends to a special seek-friendly service at a local church.
Over 15,000 churches participated in the first Friend Day, and it became a perennial event in many churches over the next decade.
Towns continues to be active in this ministry, producing resource packets and education material.
In 1995 Towns’ book The Names of the Holy Spirit received the Gold Medallion Award for Book of the Year by the Christian Booksellers Association.
In 2009 Towns was awarded the Bronze Telly Award for Through the Decades.
Anton Vladimirovich Kartashev (Russian: Антон Владимирович Карташёв; 1875–1960) was a Russian professor of Church History and a journalist.
Briefly in 1917 he was the last Ober-Procurator of the Most Holy Governing Synod of the Orthodox Church in Russia and Minister of Religion in the Russian Provisional Government; but from 1920 he taught in Paris.
Anton Vladimirovich Kartashev was born in Russia on 11 July 1875 in Kyshtym in Perm Governorate in the Ural Mountains - the son of a government clerk and former miner.
He was educated at a Church school in Ekaterinburg.
In 1894 he earned a theological degree from Perm Seminary, and in 1899 from the St. Petersburg Spiritual Academy.
The following year he began his academic career, as a lecturer in Russian Church History at the St. Petersburg Spiritual Academy (1900-1905).
He resigned this post in 1905 and briefly worked as an assistant librarian at the St Petersburg Imperial Public Library, but in 1906 he returned to lecturing, teaching the history of religion at St. Petersburg University College for Women (1906-1918).
During this period he became chairperson of the Religious Philosophical Society in Petersburg (1909), and also edited the journal, Vestnik Zhizni.
On 25 March 1917 in the aftermath of the February Revolution Kartashev was named assistant to the Ober-procurator of the Holy Governing Synod of the Orthodox Church in Russia, Prince Vladimir Lvov; he himself served as Ober-procurator from 25 July to 5 August 1917, when the office was abolished, and he then served as the first Minister of Religion until the October Revolution that year.
In 1918 Kartashev was arrested by the Communists.
In January 1919 he fled Russia for Finland; and in 1920 settled in Paris.
In 1922 his book on 'Reform, Reformation and the Fulfilment of the Church' was published in Berlin.
In Paris in 1924 he was instrumental, with several other emigre intellectuals, in founding the St. Sergius Orthodox Theological Institute, and from 1925 he was a professor there until his death.
In 1932 he published his book, 'On the Way to the Ecumenical Council', and in 1944 the Institute awarded him a doctorate in theology.
After the second World War Kartashev published books titled The Biblical Criticism of the Old Testament (1947), The Restoration of Holy Russia (1956) and a History of the Russian Church (1959).
Another book, on The ecumenical councils, was published posthumously in 1965.
He died on September 10, 1960, and is buried in the Sainte-Geneviève-des-Bois Russian Cemetery in Paris.
Paula F. Fredriksen (born January 6, 1951, Kingston, Rhode Island) is an American historian and a scholar of religious studies.
She held the position of William Goodwin Aurelio Professor of the Appreciation of Scripture at Boston University through 2010 and is now the William Goodwin Aurelio Chair Emerita of the Appreciation of Scripture.
She served as historical consultant for the BBC production The Lives of Jesus (1996) and for U.S. News and World Report 's "The Life and Times of Jesus" and was featured speaker in the Frontline documentary From Jesus to Christ: The First Christians (1998), based heavily on her book From Jesus to Christ: The Origins of the New Testament Images of Jesus.
She earned a Ph.D in the history of religion from Princeton University and diploma in theology from Oxford University.
Fredriksen is a scholar of the historical Jesus.
While some historians interpret the historical Jesus as a nonapocalyptic ethical teacher, she sides with those who portray him as an apocalyptic preacher in the tradition of prophets before him and apostles after him.
In addition to the historical Jesus, Fredriksen is also interested in the social history of Christianity from its beginnings to the Fall of the Roman Empire.
She has published two books on St. Augustine, both focused on his attitudes towards Jews and Judaism.
In contrast to other historians of Christian anti-Semitism, she regards Augustine as having a more enlightened, indeed revolutionary, attitude towards Jews and Judaism than many of his other Christian contemporaries.
One of the editors of her book From Jesus to Christ: The Origins of the New Testament Images of Jesus was the New Testament scholar E.P.
Sanders.
Along with Geza Vermes, she is often regarded as among the most influential scholars interested in replacing Jesus within a Jewish context.
She has held that much of the scholarship regarding Jesus from the 19th and 20th centuries has an anti-Judaic (and/or anti-Semitic) bias, a theme explored in her book Jesus, Judaism, and Christian anti-Judaism: reading the New Testament after the Holocaust.
Her book From Jesus to Christ, (Yale University Press, 1988) received its publisher's Governors' Award.
Her book Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews: A Jewish Life and the Emergence of Christianity (Knopf 1999) won a National Jewish Book Award.
She was an outspoken critic of the film The Passion of the Christ, and edited a full-length book anthology of essays critiquing the film.
In 2013 Paula Fredriksen was elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences (AAAS).
Prof. Fredriksen's latest appointment is at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in Israel.
Fredriksen is married to Alfred I. Tauber, professor of philosophy emeritua and Zoltan Kohn Professor of Medicine emeritus at Boston University.
Father John O'Connor (1870–1952), a Roman Catholic parish priest in Bradford, Yorkshire, was the basis of G. K. Chesterton's fictional detective Father Brown.
O'Connor was instrumental in Chesterton's conversion to Roman Catholicism in 1922.
He also received the poet and painter David Jones into the Church in 1921, and was associated with Eric Gill and The Guild of St Joseph and St Dominic at Ditchling.
Born on 5 December 1870 in Clonmel, County Tipperary, Ireland, O'Connor was educated by the Franciscans and Christian Brothers until the age of twelve, at which point he left for Douai in Flanders to study at the English Benedictine College.
He later studied theology and philosophy at the English College in Rome.
He was ordained at St. John Lateran on 30 March 1895.
O'Connor served as curate at St. Joseph's in Bradford, England, and later at St. Marie's, Halifax, West Vale and St. Anne's, Keighley.
From 1909 to 1919, O'Conner was parish priest of Heckmondwike, where he helped build the Church of the Holy Spirit.
It was in Keighley that O'Connor met the writer G. K. Chesterton in 1904.
He would later receive Chesterton into the Roman Catholic faith in 1922.
O'Connor served as parish priest at St. Cuthbert's from 1919 until his death.
In 1937 he was made Privy Chamberlain to His Holiness.
John O'Connor died in the Sisters' of Mercy Nursing Home at Horsforth on 6 February 1952.
After meeting G. K. Chesterton in 1904, O'Connor became the model for the Father Brown character and the two men maintained a friendship for over 30 years.
In addition to Chesterton, O'Connor was also associated with the Catholic authors Hilaire Belloc, Maurice Baring and the typographer and engraver Eric Gill.
O'Connor published poems, book reviews and prose in English Catholic periodicals and news papers, and also translated the work of French poet Paul Claudel (including "The Satin Slipper" and "Ways and Crossways") and the philosopher Jacques Maritain's "Art et Scolastique".
The papers of Monsignor John O'Connor are held at the University of St. Michael's College at the University of Toronto.
The collection contains hand-written and typed manuscripts, poems, translations and radio transcripts created and accumulated by Monsignor John O'Connor, as well as his correspondence, collected ephemera (including news clippings, Christmas cards, posters, pamphlets, and small press publications) and research notes.
The majority of the material relates to O'Connor friendship with the author G. K. Chesterton, although O'Connor also translated Latin religious poetry and composed his own verse and wrote prose pieces on literature, Church history, morality, religion and philosophy.
- December 1, 1993) was a 20th-century Danish Tibetologist, most remembered for his pioneering work on the religious ethos of the Tibetan Empire and his contributions to the study of the Zhang Zhung language.
Haarh graduated from college in 1948; throughout his education he had a strong interest and passion for the Tibetan Language and culture.
Much of the special literature in this area was unavailable in Denmark, so he made contacts in London and had the necessary material imported.
After graduating he began to study the history of religion and aimed to write a dissertation about Buddhism, which required extensive language study.
Following up on his interest for Tibetan language and culture, he went to Rome where he met Giuseppe Tucci and other professors such as Raffaele Pettazzoni and Walter Simon.
As a part of this stay in Rome he took courses using sources in Sanskrit, Hindi, Pali, Tibetan and Chinese.
After finishing his MA degree in 1955 he was employed by Copenhagen University as a teaching assistant in Tibetan language and culture.
In 1956 he was employed as a librarian at the Royal Danish Library in their Oriental Department, and in 1962 became the head of the department.
During the years that followed he made many research journeys in Europe and was a guest speaker at many different universities.
Starting in 1969 he became head of the History/Religion Department at Aarhus University.
In the same year, he finished his work on his magnum opus The Yarlun dynasty.
In this dissertation he put his focus on showing how the ideology of the King as a main pillar in the society is connected to the religious cosmology and used sources such as priests and other hierarchical institutions.
The final result has been considered quite a contribution to the Tibetology study in general.
After this he worked on several catalogues – e.g.
a comparative list of the Derge and Lhasa editions of the Kanjur and a catalogue of oriental manuscripts and xylographs owned in Denmark and was therefore considered a highly valued specialist in that area.
He worked with some of his students of religion as the main contributors to a series of study materials used for colleges and A-levels and took the initiative in arranging some lectures and conferences – these being published in the same series of study material.
He was invited to give lectures and instructions when UNESCO initiated a school project offering material on foreign religions for primary school teachers.
These efforts created an image of him as a very approachable and friendly man who like the joined efforts of the work and who didn’t just spend his time in his office behind a pile of books.
Beginning in 1983 Haarh became a professor in the Faculty of Theology.
He died on 1 December 1993, after being ill for a long time.
Australian Lutheran College (ALC), formerly Luther Seminary and informally "The Sem", is a higher education institution serving the Lutheran Church of Australia and a registered teaching institution of University of Divinity.
It is located in North Adelaide, South Australia on the corner of Ward and Jeffcott streets.
The campus includes a number of single and shared accommodation blocks, a library, a refectory as well as educational facilities.
Although still primarily a theological college, it is also open to students studying at Adelaide University, the University of South Australia, Flinders University, or TAFE, a paradigm reflected in the name change of 2004.
Unique among South Australian residential colleges, Australian Lutheran College is equipped to accommodate married students, even with families.
As of 10 August 2014, the principal of the college has been Pastor James Winderlich.
Prior to its use as a seminary, the site was used for three different schools or colleges - the North Adelaide Grammar School from 1854-1882; Whinham College from 1882-1898, during which time a boarding house (now Hebart Hall) and a gymnasium-lecture hall (now the main part of Löhe Memorial Library) were built; and Angas College, owned by John Howard Angas, son of South Australian "patriarch" George Fife Angas and operated as an interdenominational missionary training school until the army took possession of the site for a repatriation hospital in 1916.
In 1922 the United Evangelical Lutheran Church in Australia purchased the property for only ₤13,500 on the condition that it was used for Protestant Evangelical religious education.
The college and seminary was opened on 25 February 1923 and remained on the site until during World War II when it was given ten days' notice by the Air Force that the college had to move; upon which it transferred to North Walkerville.
The principal was Pastor J. P. Löhe, after whom the library would later be named.
The seminary was able to remain on the North Adelaide site and did so, expansively renovating the old college site to extend the seminary itself at the end of the war.
Hebart Hall was used as a residence for lecturers and tertiary boarders and the gymnasium-lecture hall ("Angas Hall") for the chapel until its conversion to the library in 1960.
With the amalgamation of the UELCA and the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Australia (ELCA) in 1966 came the amalgamation of the ELCA's seminary (Concordia, where the secondary school is still situated) and the UELCA's North Adelaide seminary.
In 1967 extensive building programs began, including additions to the library, the erection of a new boarding house (Graebner Hall) and demolition of the old grammar school to make way for a refectory and extra accommodation (Hamann Hall).
The new seminary opened debt-free due to a church appeal which raised $1 million.
The increasing number of married students brought the expansion of the campus to include buildings on Jeffcott Street, Archer Street and Ward Court.
Lutheran Teachers College and the Lay Training Centre were moved to the campus in 1989 and with this the name changed to Luther Campus to reflect the change of role of the site.
Attempts were made to find suitable sites for relocation for the institution but these were abandoned in 1990 and the church authorised more works, including the erection of 17 townhouses on Archer Street, a new Student Centre between Graebner Hall and the townhouses.
In 1994 the School of Theology (for lay students) joined the campus also.
In 1998 the three occupants of Luther Campus came under the authority of one institution, three programs in one school, and the name was changed back to Luther Seminary.
The 2003 General Synod of the church decided to change the name of the institution to Australian Lutheran College from 1 January 2004, to reflect the nature of the college as an education facility, not just a seminary.
The SPT is the school dedicated to training pastors for work in the Lutheran Church of Australia.
Students who are accepted into this school study for Bachelor of Theology and Bachelor of Ministry degrees - a five year double degree.
Subjects are taken in a number of different fields, such as history, theology, biblical studies (including Greek and Hebrew studies) and pastoral theology.
Aside from the vicarage period, the teaching is all done on campus.
As this is the only LCA seminary, students come from all over Australia and New Zealand and most live in nearby ALC accommodation.
The school attracts a constant stream of international students, primarily from Asia and the Pacific region.
The SET oversees the training of teachers for service in Lutheran schools.
As the nature of this school is one complementary to university studies much of its work is done off campus.
The STS is the school which provides theological training for lay people - those not studying for ordained ministry.
It has a range of on campus subjects and also provides online learning for long distance students.
The ALC provides accommodation for up to 96 tertiary boarders (and single students studying at ALC), the majority coming from the surrounding areas such as the Barossa Valley, Mid North, Riverland, Eyre Peninsula, Murray Mallee and Mount Gambier/South East.
Services provided by the ALC for the boarding community include meals, cleaning, linen service, tennis and basketball court and squash court and a basic gym.
Chapel is held mid-morning every weekday during term.
It is largely student run and a sermon is heard most weeks, either from a lecturer or a senior student.
The chapel is located in Hebart Hall.
The library has one of the better theological collections in the southern hemisphere, and holds over 100,000 items.
The library was named after Johannes Paul Löhe, the principal of Immanuel Seminary, Adelaide from 1923 to 1944.
The library contains historical artefacts and a large collection of journals and theologically-based books and material and is mainly housed in Whinham Hall, which was built in 1882.
Originally called the Luther Seminary Students Association, then changed to the ALC Students Association and with the advent of VSU in Australian universities, has changed to the ALC Residents Association - to make it clearer that the membership extends to those who live on campus, boarders and the ALC students who live in the on campus units.
The ALCRA are responsible for forming a community atmosphere amongst both boarders and students.
They organise events during the year, internal sporting competitions and community barbecues.
One of the notable events during the year, originally a mixed-doubles tennis match between the Lutheran Teachers College students and the ALC pastoral ministry students it became a mixed netball match.
Now it is a match between the ALC students and the boarders.
Tangara is the college's annual magazine which encompasses all aspects of the community, boarding, teaching and pastoral and theological students.
Molana Muhammad Idrees (مولانا محمد ادریس صاحب), popularly known as Shaikh Idrees (شیخ ادریس صاحب) was born in Utmanzai village of Charsadda District of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.
He was born in 1961 to Hakeem Abdul Haq, a well known religious figure in his days and was known by locals as Munazir-e-Islam.
His grandfather was Mufti Shahzada a Shaikh-ul-Hadees.
Molana Idrees is the son in law of Internationally renowned religious leader and Scholar Molana Hassan Jan.
He has two sons named Hafiz Anees Ahmad who is pursuing religious education in Darul Uloom Haqqania, and Qari Salman Ahmad who is getting medical education and is doing M.B.B.S.
Molana Muhammad Idrees got his education from Jamia Nomania (جامعہ نعمانیہ) in his hometown Utmanzai.
For higher religious education (دورہ حدیث) he went to Darul-uloom Haqqania located in Akora Khattak, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Molana Idrees also got contemporary education and has done M.A Arabic and M.A Islamiyat from University of Peshawar with good grades.
After getting his education completed, Molana Idrees devoted himself to giving religious education to the youth of the nation.
He started teaching at Jamia Nomania for that purpose and is still busy there in teaching and the management of the institute.
Presently he is Shaikh-ul-Hadees (شیخ الحدیث) at Jamia Nomania.
Molana Muhammad Idrees has also actively participated in the politics of the country.
He has been the Amir (امیر) of the popular political party Jamiat-e-Ulama-e-Islam Pakistan of Charsadda District.
Now he is the sarparast-e-alaa (سرپرست اعلیٰ) of the same party in District Charsadda.
Shaikh sahib has also been a member of the provincial assembly of KP (Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) province and Speaker in the same Assembly.
He is the ex chairman of the press committee and ex member of Nifaz-e-Shariat Council (نفاذ شریعت کونسل)
The Protestant University of Applied Sciences Freiburg (German name: Evangelische Hochschule Freiburg (EH)) is a university of social work, diakonia and religious education.
It is a confessional, state-approved university located in Freiburg.
The responsible body is the Protestant regional church of Baden (Evangelische Landeskirche in Baden).
Baden is the name of the area in the South-West of Germany, belonging to the State of Baden-Württemberg.
Note that in Germany the title protestant, although referring to the Protestant Churches sponsorship, does not influence the tuitional and scientific content taught in this institution.
In this context, churchly managed universities do not differ from state-run universities.
The students of social work and religious education obtain a bachelor's degree.
It is called Bachelor of Arts, diploma supplement Soziale Arbeit (includes social work and social pedagogy) or religious education.
An additional voluntary course of study leads to a special certificate sport-related social work.In cooperation with the Südbadische Sportschule Steinbach the Hochschule offers training in sports-related youth and social work for disadvantaged children and adolescents.
The Protestant university of Applied Sciences Freiburg was founded as a vocational school for women in religious and social work (Evangelische Frauenberufsschule für kirchliche und soziale Arbeit) in October 1918.
The education started with 12 women between 20 and 42 years.
In 1956 six men were able to begin their studies.
Roy W. Doxey (February 27, 1908 – August 10, 1992) was a theologian and mid-level leader of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church).
Doxey was born in Ogden, Utah.
He married Alberta Opheikins in 1934.
In 1944 he was an employee of the United States government.
In that year he was called to preside over the Eastern States Mission of the LDS Church, based in Philadelphia and covering New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, West Virginia, and western Connecticut and Massachusetts.
While in this position he oversaw the re-establishment of the Hill Cumorah Pageant at the end of World War II, recruiting Harold I. Hansen to head the pageant.
Doxey also developed a standardized teaching plan for the use of missionaries.
Doxey ended his time as mission president in 1948.
Doxey then joined the faculty of Brigham Young University (BYU) where he taught until about 1974.
In June 1963, Doxey was appointed chairman of the Department of Undergraduate Studies in Religion at BYU.
He served as acting dean of the College of Religious Education for a short time following dean B.
West Belnap's death and before the appointment of Daniel H. Ludlow.
In 1969 Doxey became assistant dean of Religion at BYU.
Doxey served as Dean of Religious Education at BYU from 1971 to 1974 when he was succeeded by Jeffrey R. Holland.
While Dean of Religious Education, Doxey was able to convince members of the BYU administration to not go through with the idea of ending the listing of grades from religion classes.
Doxey also served as president of the Provo Utah Stake.
Doxey later served as a Regional Representative of the Twelve and as a member of the Young Men General Board.
In civic affairs, Doxey served for several years on the Utah Valley Hospital board.
Doxey wrote at least twelve books that were published, at least five of which were about the Doctrine and Covenants.
He was for eight years a direct employee of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
Doxey's influence is such in Mormon thought that fifteen years after his death he was quoted in a First Presidency Message.
Syed Ghulam Hussain Shah Bukhari ( ) (born 1932) is an Islamic religious cleric from Pakistan.
He belongs to the Naqshbandi Sufi school of thought.
He manages the Dargah Hussainabad, one of the largest religious institution in Pakistan.
Syed Ghulam Hussain Shah Bukhari was born in 1932 in a village Drib Chandia, Qambar Shahdadkot, Pakistan.
He is a Naqshbandi Sufi saint.
He received his primary religious education from his father, Syed Gul Muhammad Shah, his other teachers were Maulana Khushi Muhammad Tunio, Ghulam Muhammad Chandio and Ali Gohar Mastoi.
His spiritual instructor was Khwaja Muhammad Abdul Ghaffar also known Peer Mitha Saeen.
After completing his education, Bukhari moved to Qamber town, where he started leading the prayers in the masjid.
In 1980, he built a masjid and madrassa titled Dargah Hussainabad where religious education and accommodation is free of all political associations.
He is also the head of Tanzeem Islahul Fuqra Al-Hussainia, that provides also religious education to people.
His religious way (Tariqat) is Naqshbandi, Sufi.
He is descendant of Khwaja Abdul Ghaffar Naqshbandi Fazli Alias Pir Mitha (1880-1964).
He is known and respected in Pakistan and abroad.
People of different sects and several politicians also visit him for his blessings.
Former prime minister, Benazir Bhutto often paid visits to him.
He has also been attacked by terrorists in which he survived.
The Farmington Institute for Christian Studies is based at Harris Manchester College, a constituent college of the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom.
Dr Ralph Waller is both Principal of the College and Director of the Farmington Institute.
The Farmington Institute was founded by the late Hon.
Robert 'Bobby' Willis, a member of the West Country tobacco family W.D.
& H.O.
Wills, to support, encourage and improve Christian education in schools, colleges and universities.
The idea for founding the Institute came to him during the World War II, when he was serving with the Grenadier Guards.
He decided that if he survived the War he would do something to make the world a better place.
Although severely wounded, he did survive, and so set up the Institute.
Originally the Institute was instrumental in setting up regional RE resource centres and organising conferences for teachers of Religious Education.
Wills then decided to offer Farmington Fellowships, a form of educational scholarship, which allowed teachers of Religious Education to have a term out of school giving them time to research a relevant topic at a university.
The Institute pays for all incidental expenses, including providing a replacement teacher in the Fellow's school.
The Farmington Fellows present the results of their researches in an annual summer conference which is held in Oxford at Harris Manchester College.
Having been awarded Millennium Grants in 1997 and 2000, the Institute is now able to offer Farmington Fellowships to primary and secondary school teachers of Religious Education, teachers of RE to children with Special Educational Needs, as well as headteachers.
The Institute also gives Fellowships to the British Armed Forces to undertake research into moral and ethical leadership.
The Farmington Papers, provided free to members of the Institute, are aimed at RE teachers and others interested in theological and religious subjects.
Conferences and seminars are arranged periodically.
The Institute is ecumenical in its Christian outlook and takes a particular interest in developing good relationships with other world religions.
Theology is the systematic religious skepticism and rational study of concepts of God and of the nature of religious ideas, but can also mean the learned profession acquired by completing specialized training in religious studies, usually at a university, seminary, or school of divinity.
Augustine of Hippo defined the Latin equivalent, theologia, as "reasoning or discussion concerning the Deity"; Richard Hooker defined "theology" in English as "the science of things divine".
The term can, however, be used for a variety of different disciplines or fields of study.
Theologians use various forms of analysis and argument (philosophical, ethnographic, historical, spiritual and others) to help understand, explain, test, critique, defend or promote any of myriad religious topics.
Theology might be undertaken to help the theologian: Theology translates into English from the Greek theologia (θεολογία) which derived from Τheos (Θεός), meaning "God," and -logia (-λογία), meaning "utterances, sayings, or oracles" (a word related to logos [λόγος], meaning "word, discourse, account, or reasoning") which had passed into Latin as theologia and into French as théologie.
The English equivalent "theology" (Theologie, Teologye) had evolved by 1362.
The sense the word has in English depends in large part on the sense the Latin and Greek equivalents had acquired in Patristic and medieval Christian usage, though the English term has now spread beyond Christian contexts.
It is seen by some to be a term only appropriate to the study of all religions that worship a supposed deity (a theos), i.e.
more widely than the Judeo-Christian tradition, and to presuppose belief in the ability to speak and reason about this deity (in logia).
They suggest the term is less appropriate in religious contexts that are organized differently (religions without a single deity, or that deny that such subjects can be studied logically).
("Hierology" has been proposed as an alternative, more generic term.)
Islamic theological discussion that parallels Christian theological discussion is named "Kalam"; the Islamic analogue of Christian theological discussion would more properly be the investigation and elaboration of Sharia or Fiqh.
"Kalam ... does not hold the leading place in Muslim thought that theology does in Christianity.
To find an equivalent for 'theology' in the Christian sense it is necessary to have recourse to several disciplines, and to the usul al-fiqh as much as to kalam."
Some academic inquiries within Buddhism, dedicated to the rational investigation of a Buddhist understanding of the world, prefer the designation Buddhist philosophy to the term Buddhist theology, since Buddhism lacks the same conception of a theos.
Jose Ignacio Cabezon, who argues that the use of "theology" is appropriate, can only do so, he says, because "I take theology not to be restricted to discourse on God ...
I take 'theology' not to be restricted to its etymological meaning.
In that latter sense, Buddhism is of course atheological, rejecting as it does the notion of God."
Within Hindu philosophy, there is a solid and ancient tradition of philosophical speculation on the nature of the universe, of God (termed "Brahman", Paramatma and Bhagavan in some schools of Hindu thought) and of the Atman (soul).
The Sanskrit word for the various schools of Hindu philosophy is Darshana (meaning "view" or "viewpoint").
Vaishnava theology has been a subject of study for many devotees, philosophers and scholars in India for centuries, and in recent decades also has been taken on by a number of academic institutions in Europe, such as the Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies and Bhaktivedanta College.
In Judaism, the historical absence of political authority has meant that most theological reflection has happened within the context of the Jewish community and synagogue, rather than within specialized academic institutions.
Nevertheless, Jewish theology historically has been very active and highly significant for Christian and Islamic theology.
It is sometimes claimed, however, that the Jewish analogue of Christian theological discussion would more properly be Rabbinical discussion of Jewish law and Jewish Biblical commentaries.
The history of the study of theology in institutions of higher education is as old as the history of such institutions themselves.
For instance, Taxila was an early centre of Vedic learning, possible from the 6th century BC or earlier; the Platonic Academy founded in Athens in the 4th century BC seems to have included theological themes in its subject matter; the Chinese Taixue delivered Confucian teaching from the 2nd century BC; the School of Nisibis was a centre of Christian learning from the 4th century AD; Nalanda in India was a site of Buddhist higher learning from at least the 5th or 6th century AD; and the Moroccan University of Al-Karaouine was a centre of Islamic learning from the 10th century, as was Al-Azhar University in Cairo.
Modern Western universities evolved from the monastic institutions and (especially) cathedral schools of Western Europe during the High Middle Ages (see, for instance, the University of Bologna, Paris University and Oxford University).
From the beginning, Christian theological learning was therefore a central component in these institutions, as was the study of Church or Canon law: universities played an important role in training people for ecclesiastical offices, in helping the church pursue the clarification and defence of its teaching, and in supporting the legal rights of the church over against secular rulers.
At such universities, theological study was initially closely tied to the life of faith and of the church: it fed, and was fed by, practices of preaching, prayer and celebration of the Mass.
During the High Middle Ages, theology was therefore the ultimate subject at universities, being named "The Queen of the Sciences" and serving as the capstone to the Trivium and Quadrivium that young men were expected to study.
This meant that the other subjects (including Philosophy) existed primarily to help with theological thought.
Christian theology’s preeminent place in the university began to be challenged during the European Enlightenment, especially in Germany.
Other subjects gained in independence and prestige, and questions were raised about the place in institutions that were increasingly understood to be devoted to independent reason of a discipline that seemed to involve commitment to the authority of particular religious traditions.
Since the early nineteenth century, various different approaches have emerged in the West to theology as an academic discipline.
Much of the debate concerning theology's place in the university or within a general higher education curriculum centres on whether theology's methods are appropriately theoretical and (broadly speaking) scientific or, on the other hand, whether theology requires a pre-commitment of faith by its practitioners, and whether such a commitment conflicts with academic freedom.
In some contexts, theology has been held to belong in institutions of higher education primarily as a form of professional training for Christian ministry.
This was the basis on which Friedrich Schleiermacher, a liberal theologian, argued for the inclusion of theology in the new University of Berlin in 1810.
For instance, in Germany, theological faculties at state universities are typically tied to particular denominations, Protestant or Roman Catholic, and those faculties will offer denominationally bound (konfessionsgebunden) degrees, and have denominationally bound public posts amongst their faculty; as well as contributing ‘to the development and growth of Christian knowledge’ they ‘provide the academic training for the future clergy and teachers of religious instruction at German schools.’ In the United States, several prominent colleges and universities were started in order to train Christian ministers.
Harvard, Georgetown, Boston University, Yale, and Princeton all had the theological training of clergy as a primary purpose at their foundation.
Seminaries and bible colleges have continued this alliance between the academic study of theology and training for Christian ministry.
There are, for instance, numerous prominent US examples, including Catholic Theological Union in Chicago, The Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, Criswell College in Dallas, The Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in Deerfield, Illinois, Dallas Theological Seminary, and The Assemblies of God Theological Seminary in Springfield, Missouri.
In some contexts, scholars pursue theology as an academic discipline without formal affiliation to any particular church (though members of staff may well have affiliations to churches), and without focussing on ministerial training.
This applies, for instance, to many university departments in the United Kingdom, including the Faculties of Divinity at the University of Cambridge and University of Oxford, the Department of Theology and Religion at the University of Exeter, and the Department of Theology and Religious Studies at the University of Leeds.
Traditional academic prizes, such as the University of Aberdeen's Lumsden and Sachs Fellowship, tend to acknowledge performance in theology (or divinity as it is known at Aberdeen) and in religious studies.
In some contemporary contexts, a distinction is made between theology, which is seen as involving some level of commitment to the claims of the religious tradition being studied, and religious studies.
By contrast religious studies is normally seen as requiring that the question of the truth or falsehood of the religious traditions studied is kept outside its field.
Religious studies involves the study of the historical or contemporary practices or ideas those traditions using intellectual tools and frameworks that are not themselves specifically tied to any religious tradition, and that are normally understood to be neutral or secular.
In contexts where 'religious studies' in this sense is the focus, the primary forms of study are likely to include: Theology and religious studies are sometimes seen as being in tension; they are sometimes held to coexist without serious tension; and it is sometimes denied that there is as clear a boundary between them as the brief description here suggests.
Whether or not reasoned discussion about the divine is possible has long been a point of contention.
Protagoras, as early as the fifth century BC, who is reputed to have been exiled from Athens because of his agnosticism about the existence of the gods, said that "Concerning the gods I cannot know either that they exist or that they do not exist, or what form they might have, for there is much to prevent one's knowing: the obscurity of the subject and the shortness of man's life."
Lord Bolingbroke, an English politician and political philosopher wrote in his political works his views on theology, "Theology is in fault not religion.
Theology is a science that may justly be compared to the Box of Pandora.
Many good things lie uppermost in it; but many evil lie under them, and scatter plagues and desolation throughout the world."
Thomas Paine the American revolutionary, wrote in his two part work The Age of Reason, "The study of theology, as it stands in Christian churches, is the study of nothing; it is founded on nothing; it rests on no principles; it proceeds by no authorities; it has no data; it can demonstrate nothing; and it admits of no conclusion.
Not anything can be studied as a science, without our being in possession of the principles upon which it is founded; and as this is the case with Christian theology, it is therefore the study of nothing."
Ludwig Feuerbach, the atheist philosopher sought to dissolve theology in his work Principles of the Philosophy of the Future: "The task of the modern era was the realization and humanization of God – the transformation and dissolution of theology into anthropology."
This mirrored his earlier work The Essence of Christianity (pub.
1841), for which he was banned from teaching in Germany, in which he had said that theology was a "web of contradictions and delusions".
A.J.
Ayer the former logical-positivist, sought to show in his essay "Critique of Ethics and Theology" that all statements about the divine are nonsensical and any divine-attribute is unprovable.
He wrote: "It is now generally admitted, at any rate by philosophers, that the existence of a being having the attributes which define the god of any non-animistic religion cannot be demonstratively proved... [A]ll utterances about the nature of God are nonsensical."
Walter Kaufmann the philosopher, in his essay "Against Theology", sought to differentiate theology from religion in general.
"Theology, of course, is not religion; and a great deal of religion is emphatically anti-theological... An attack on theology, therefore, should not be taken as necessarily involving an attack on religion.
Religion can be, and often has been, untheological or even anti-theological."
However, Kaufmann found that "Christianity is inescapably a theological religion".
Critics dating back to the 18th century have questioned the suitability of theology as an academic discipline and in the 21st century criticism continues.
Charles Bradlaugh believed theology prevented human beings achieving liberty.
Bradlaugh noted theologians of his time stated that modern scientific research contradicted sacred scriptures therefore the scriptures must be wrong.
Robert G. Ingersoll stated that when theologians had power the majority of people lived in hovels while a privileged few had palaces and cathedrals.
In Ingersoll's opinion science rather than theology improved people's lives.
Ingersoll maintained further that trained theologians reason no better than a person who assumes the devil must exist because pictures resemble the devil so exactly.
Mark Twain stated that several mutually incompatible religions claimed to be the true religion and that people cut the throats of others for following a different theology.
Portugal has no official religion.
The most predominant religion in Portugal is Roman Catholicism.
According to the 2011 Census, 81% of the population of Portugal is Catholic, though only about 19% attend Mass and take the sacraments regularly, while a larger number wish to be baptized, married in a church, and receive Last Rites.
Although Church and State were formally separated during the Portuguese First Republic (1910–1926), a separation reiterated in the constitution of 1976, Roman Catholic precepts continue to have a significant bearing in Portuguese society and culture.
The educational and health care systems were for a long time the Church's preserve, and in many cases, whenever a building, bridge, or highway was opened, it received a blessing from the Clergy.
Although Church and State are formally separate, the Catholic Church still receives certain privileges.
Statistically, religious practice increases with increasing age, the younger generations showing less evidence of religious practice than the older.
As in most provinces of the Roman Empire, the religious beliefs and deities of the Pre-Roman populations mingled and coexisted with Roman mythology.
In the Portuguese case, those Pre-Roman religions where basically Proto-Celtic or Celtic, chief amongst them that of the Lusitanians' (see Lusitanian mythology).
Jewish populations have existed in the area, going back to the Roman era or even before that, and are directly related to Sephardi history.
The Roman Provinces of Lusitania (comprising most of Portugal south of the Douro river) and of Gallaecia (north of the Douro river) were first Christianized while part of the Roman Empire.
During this period, Bracara Augusta (the modern city of Braga) became one of the most important episcopal centres, alongside Santiago de Compostela.
Christianity was solidified when the Suevi and the Visigoths — Germanic tribes already Christianized — came into the Iberian Peninsula in the fifth century.
Early Visigoths followed the Arian heresy, but they joined Roman mainstream after the eighth century.
The city of Braga played an important role in the religious history of the period, namely when of the renunciation of the Arian and Priscillianist heresies, at two synods held there in the sixth century, marking the origin of its ecclesiastical greatness.
The Archbishops of Braga retains the title of Primate of Portugal, and long claimed supremacy over the whole of the churches of Hispania.
Braga had an important role in the Christianization of the whole Iberian Peninsula.
The first known bishop of Braga, Paternus, lived in the end of the fourth century, although Saint Ovidius (d. 135 AD) is sometimes considered one of the first bishops of this city.
In the early fifth century, Paulus Orosius, a friend of Saint Augustine, born in Braga, wrote several theological and historical works of great importance.
In the sixth century, a great figure was Saint Martin of Braga, a bishop of Braga who converted the Suevi from Arianism to Catholicism.
He also founded an important monastery near Braga, in Dumio (Dume), now an archaeological site.
Several Ecumenical Councils were held in Braga during this period, a sign of the religious importance of the city.
Christianity saw its importance diminish in southern Portugal during Moorish rule in the Al-Andalus period, beginning in 711 with the Umayyad conquest of Hispania, even if most of the population still followed Christianity according to the Mozarabic Rite.
In the north, however, Christianity provided the cultural and religious cement that helped hold Portugal together as a distinctive entity, at least since the reconquest of Porto in 868 by Vímara Peres, the founder of the First County of Portugal.
By the same token, Christianity was the rallying cry of those who rose up against the Moors and sought to drive them out.
Hence, Christianity and the Catholic Church pre-dated the establishment of the Portuguese nation, a point that shaped relations between the two.
Under Afonso Henriques (r. 1139–1185), the first king of Portugal and the founder of the Portuguese Kingdom, church and state were unified into a lasting and mutually beneficial partnership.
To secure papal recognition of his country, Afonso declared Portugal a vassal state of the Pope, and was as such recognized in 1179 through the papal bull Manifestis Probatum.
The King found the Church to be a useful ally as he drove the Moors towards the South.
For its support of his policies, Afonso richly rewarded the Church by granting it vast lands and privileges in the conquered territories.
The Church became the country's largest landowner, and its power came to be equal to that of the nobility, the military orders, and even, for a time, the Crown.
But Afonso also asserted his supremacy over the Church, a supremacy that — with various ups and downs — was maintained.
Although relations between the Portuguese State and the Catholic Church were generally amiable and stable, their relative power fluctuated.
In the 13th and 14th centuries, the Church enjoyed both riches and power stemming from its role in the reconquest and its close identification with early Portuguese nationalism.
For a time, the Church's position vis-à-vis the State diminished until the growth of the Portuguese Overseas Empire made its missionaries important agents of colonization (see, for example, Kingdom of Kongo).
Until the 15th century, some Jews occupied prominent places in Portuguese political and economical life.
For example, Isaac Abrabanel was the treasurer of King Afonso V of Portugal.
Many also had an active role in the Portuguese culture, and they kept their reputation of diplomats and merchants.
By this time, Lisbon and Évora were home to important Jewish communities.
In 1497, reflecting events that had occurred five years earlier in Spain, Portugal expelled the Jews and the few remaining Moors — or forced them to convert.
In 1536, the Pope gave King João III (r. 1521–1257) permission to establish the Portuguese Inquisition to enforce the purity of the faith.
Earlier, the country had been rather tolerant, but now orthodoxy and intolerance reigned.
The Jesuit Order was placed in charge of all education.
In the 18th century, anti-Church sentiment became strong.
The Marquês de Pombal (r. 1750–1777) expelled the Jesuits in 1759, broke relations with the Holy See in Rome, and brought education under the State's control.
Pombal was eventually removed from his office, and many of his reforms were undone, but anti-Clericalism remained a force in Portuguese society.
In 1821, the Inquisition was abolished, religious orders were banned, and the Church lost much of its property.
Relations between Church and State improved in the second half of the 19th century, but a new wave of anti-Clericalism emerged with the establishment of the Portuguese First Republic in 1910.
Not only were Church properties seized and education secularized, but the Republic went so far as to ban the ringing of church bells, the wearing of clerical garb on the streets, and the holding of many popular religious festivals.
With the outbreak of the First World War the Portuguese First Republic viewed it as a unique opportunity to achieve a number of goals: putting an end to the twin threats of a Spanish invasion of Portugal and of foreign occupation of the colonies and, at the internal level, creating a national consensus around the regime.
These domestic objectives were not met and the armed forces, whose political awareness had grown during the war, and whose leaders had not forgiven the regime for sending them to a war they did not want to fight, seemed to represent, to conservative forces, the last bastion of "order" against the "chaos" that was taking over the country.
By the mid-1920s the domestic and international scenes began to favour an authoritarian solution, wherein a strengthened executive might restore political and social order.
Under the Estado Novo corporatist authoritarian regime of António de Oliveira Salazar (r. 1928–1968), the Church experienced a revival.
Salazar was himself deeply religious and infused with Catholic precepts.
Before studying law, he had been a seminarian; his roommate at the University of Coimbra, Manuel Gonçalves Cerejeira, later became Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon.
In addition, Salazar's corporatist principles and his constitution and labour statute of 1933 were infused with Roman Catholic precepts from the papal encyclicals Rerum novarum (1891) and Quadragesimo anno (1931).
Salazar's state claimed to base itself on the principles of traditional Roman Catholicism, with an emphasis on order, discipline, and authority.
Class relations were supposedly based on harmony rather than the Marxist concept of conflict.
The family, the parish, and Christianity were said to be the foundations of the State.
Salazar went considerably beyond these principles, however, and established a full-fledged dictatorship.
His corporative State, in the opinion of some, contained about equal blends of Roman Catholic principles and Benito Mussolini-like fascism.
In 1940, a Concordat governing Church-State relations was signed between Portugal and the Vatican.
The Church was to be "separate" from the State but to enjoy a special position.
The Concordat of 1940 reversed many of the anticlerical policies adopted during the First Republic, and the Catholic Church was given exclusive control over religious instruction in the public schools.
Only Catholic clergy could serve as chaplains in the armed forces.
Divorce, which had been legalized by the republic, was made illegal for those married in a Church service, but remained legal with respect to civil marriage.
The Church was given formal "juridical personality," enabling it to incorporate and hold property.
Under Salazar, critics believe that Church and State in Portugal maintained a comfortable and mutually reinforcing relationship.
While assisting the Church in many ways, however, Salazar insisted that it stay out of politics — unless it praised his regime.
Dissent and criticism were forbidden; those clergy who stepped out of line — an occasional parish priest and once the Bishop of Porto — were silenced or forced to leave the country.
The rest of the Roman Catholic Church hierarchy, led by Cardinal Manuel Gonçalves Cerejeira, a great friend and supporter of Salazar, remained silent on the issue.
In the Portuguese Constitution of 1976, after the Carnation Revolution of 1974 and the transition to democracy, Church and State were again formally separated.
The Church continues to have a special place in Portugal, but for the most part, it has been disestablished.
Other religions are now free to organize and practice their beliefs.
In addition to constitutional changes, Portugal became a more secular society.
Traditional Roman Catholicism flourished while Portugal was overwhelmingly poor, rural, and illiterate, but as the country became more urban, literate, and secular, the practice of religion declined.
The number of men becoming priests fell, as did charitable offerings and attendance at Mass.
By the early 1990s, most Portuguese still considered themselves Roman Catholic in a vaguely cultural and religious sense, but only about one-third of them attended Mass regularly.
Indifference to religion was most likely among men and young people.
Regular churchgoers were most often women and young children.
The Church no longer had its former social influence.
During the 19th century and on into the Salazar regime, the Church was one of the most powerful institutions in the country — along with the Army and the social and economic elite.
In fact, military, economic, governmental, and religious influences in Portugal were closely intertwined and interrelated, often literally so.
Traditionally, the first son of elite families inherited land, the second went into the army, and the third became a bishop.
By the early 1990s, however, the Roman Catholic Church no longer enjoyed this pre-eminence but had fallen to seventh or eighth place in power among Portuguese interest groups.
By the 1980s, the Church seldom tried to influence how Portuguese voted, knowing such attempts would probably backfire.
During the height of the revolutionary turmoil in the mid-1970s, the Church urged its communicants to vote for centrist and conservative candidates and to repudiate communists, especially in northern Portugal, but after that the Church refrained from such an overt political role.
The Church was not able to prevent the enactment of the constitution of 1976, which separated Church and State, nor could it block legislation liberalizing divorce or abortion, issues it regarded as moral and within the realm of its responsibility.
The practice of religion in Portugal has shown striking regional differences.
Even in the early 1990s, 60 to 70 percent of the population in the traditionally Catholic North regularly attended religious services, compared with 10 to 15 percent in the historically anti-clerical South.
In the Greater Lisbon Area, about 30 percent were regular churchgoers.
The traditional importance of Catholicism in the lives of the Portuguese is evident in the physical organization of almost every village in Portugal.
The village churches are usually in prominent locations, either on the main square or on a hilltop overlooking the village.
Many of the churches and chapels were built in the 16th century at the height of Portugal's colonial expansion, and were often decorated with wood and gold leaf from the conquests.
In recent decades, however, they were often in disrepair, for there were not enough priests to tend them.
Many were used only rarely to honor the patron saints of the villages.
Much of the country's religious life has traditionally taken place outside the formal structure and official domain of the Roman Catholic Church.
This is especially true in rural areas where the celebration of saints' days and religious festivals is popular.
The most famous religious event in Portugal has been the claimed apparition of the Virgin Mary to three children in the village of Fátima in 1917.
The apparition of Our Lady of Fátima in this small village in the district of Santarém has led hundreds of thousands of pilgrims to visit the Shrine at Fátima each year, many in the hope of receiving healing.
Women tended to practice their religion more than men did, as evidenced by church attendance.
The image of the Virgin, as well as that of Christ, were commonly displayed, even in labour union offices or on signs in demonstrations.
Other aspects of Portuguese folk religion were not approved by the official Church, including witchcraft, magic, and sorcery.
Formal religion, folk beliefs, and superstition were frequently jumbled together.
Particularly in the isolated villages of northern Portugal, belief in witches, witchcraft, and evil spirits was widespread.
Some persons believed in the concept of the "evil eye" and feared those who supposedly possessed it.
Again, women were the main practitioners.
Almost every village had its "seers," practitioners of magic, and "healers."
Evil spirits and even werewolves were thought to inhabit the mountains and byways, and it was believed that people must be protected from them.
Children and young women were thought to be particularly vulnerable to the "evil eye."
As people became better educated and moved to the city, they lost some of these folk beliefs.
But in the city and among educated persons alike, superstition could still be found, even in the early 1990s.
Sorcerers, palm readers, and readers of cards had shops, particularly in poorer neighbourhoods, but not exclusively so.
In short, a strong undercurrent of superstition still remained in Portugal.
The formal Church disapproved of superstitious practices but was powerless to do much about them.
In contrast to that of Spain, Roman Catholicism in Portugal was softer and less intense.
The widespread use of folk practices and the humanization of religion made for a loving though remote God, in contrast to the harshness of the Spanish vision.
In Portugal, unlike Spain, God and his saints were imagined as forgiving and serene.
In Spain, the expressions depicted on the faces of saints and martyrs were painful and anguished; in Portugal they were complacent, calm, and pleasant.
For most of Portugal's history, few non–Roman Catholics lived in the country; those who did could not practice their religion freely.
They had been kept out of the country for three centuries by the Inquisition.
However, the British began settling in Portugal in the nineteenth century brought other Christian denominations with them.
Most belonged to the Anglican Church of England, but others were Protestant Methodists, Congregationalists, Baptists, and Presbyterians.
The establishment of a constitutional monarchy in 1834 granted limited religious toleration, and consequently led to the opening of an Anglican chapel (St. George's Church, Lisbon).
A second chapel was opened in 1868.
The Anglican mission coincided with the growing influence of the Old Catholic movement in Portugal.
Congregations were created from Roman Catholic priests and laypeople who refused to accept the dogmas of the infallibility and universal ordinary jurisdiction of the Pope, as defined by the First Vatican Council in 1870.
The Lusitanian Catholic Apostolic Evangelical Church was formed as a result in 1880 (and has been a member church of the Anglican Communion since 1980); however, laws still restricted the activities of non–Roman Catholics.
St Andrew's Church, Lisbon - a congregation of the Church of Scotland - was built in 1899.
The oldest Portuguese-speaking Protestant denomination is the Igreja Evangélica Presbiteriana de Portugal (Evangelical Presbyterian Church of Portugal), tracing its origins back to the work of a Scottish missionary on Madeira in the early 19th century.
By the early 1990s, only some 50,000 to 60,000 Anglicans and Protestants lived in Portugal, less than 1 percent of the total population.
The 1950s and 1960s saw the arrival of Pentecostals, Mormons, and Jehovah's Witnesses, all of whom increased in numbers more rapidly than the earlier arrivals did.
All groups, however, were hampered by prohibitions and restrictions against the free exercise of their religions, especially missionary activities.
These restrictions were lifted after the Revolution of 1974.
The constitution of 1976 guarantees all religions the right to practice their faith.
Non–Roman Catholic groups came to be recognized as legal entities with the right to assemble.
Portuguese who were both not Roman Catholics and were conscientious objectors had the right to apply for alternative military service.
The Roman Catholic Church, however, still sought to place barriers in the way of missionary activities.
Portugal's Muslim community consisted of a small number of immigrants from Portugal's former colonies in Africa, namely Mozambique and Guinea-Bissau, and small numbers of recent immigrant workers from Northern Africa, mainly Morocco.
In the 1991 census the number of Muslims in Portugal was under 10,000.
The main Mosque in Portugal is the Lisbon Mosque.
The majority of Muslims in the country are Sunnis, followed by approximately 5,000 to 7,000 Sevener Ismā'īlī Shīʻa Muslims.
There is also a limited number of Ahmadiyya Muslims.
The first Bahá'í visitor to Portugal was in 1926.
Its first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in Lisbon in 1946.
In 1962 the Portuguese Bahá'ís elected their first National Spiritual Assembly.
In 1963 there were nine assemblies.
According to recent counts there are close to some 2000 members of the Bahá'í Faith in 2005 according to the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia).
See Bahá'í Faith in Portugal.
The Jewish community in Portugal numbered between 500 and 1,000 as of the early 1990s.
The community was concentrated in Lisbon, and many of its members were foreigners.
The persecution of Portuguese Jewry had been so intense that until the twentieth century Portugal had no synagogue or even regular Jewish religious services (the Lisbon Synagogue was founded in 1904).
The few Jewish Portuguese were hence isolated from the main currents of Judaism.
Their community began to revive when larger numbers of foreign Jews (embassy personnel, business people, and technicians) began coming to Portugal in the 1960s and 1970s.
In northern Portugal, there are a few villages where Marranos, descendants of Jews who converted to Christianity to avoid persecution and whose religion was a mixture of Judaism and Christianity, still exist (see Belmonte Jews).
There are between 420,960 to 947,160 (4 to 9% of total population) atheist, agnostic, and irreligious people, according to other sources 6.5% of the population.
According to the Census of 2011 there were 615,332 (6.84%) people who specifically stated they were without religion (744,874 did not answer the question).
Postmodern Christianity are various forms of Christianity which have been influenced by postmodern philosophy.
Although a relatively recent development within Christianity, some Christian postmodernists assert that their style of thought has an affinity with foundational Christian thinkers such as Augustine of Hippo and Thomas Aquinas, and famed Christian mystics such as Meister Eckhart and Angelus Silesius.
In addition to Christian theology, postmodern Christianity has its roots in post-Heideggerian continental philosophy, developed ca.
1960s to present.
Despite the name some people eschew the label "postmodern Christianity" because the meaning of the term "postmodern" is frequently debated, even between those who use the label.
Therefore some say it has almost no determinate meaning and, in the United States, serves largely to symbolize an emotionally charged battle of ideologies.
Moreover, such alleged postmodern heavyweights as Jacques Derrida and Philippe Lacoue-Labarthe have refused to operate under a so-called postmodern rubric, preferring instead to specifically embrace a single project stemming from the European Enlightenment and its precursors.
Nevertheless, postmodern Christianity and its constituent schools of thought continue to be relevant.
Liberal Christianity, sometimes called liberal theology, has an affinity with certain current forms of postmodern Christianity, although postmodern Christian thought originated as a reaction against mainstream Protestant liberalism.
Liberal Christianity as an umbrella term covers diverse philosophically informed movements and moods within 19th- and 20th-century Christianity.
Despite its name, liberal Christianity has always been thoroughly protean.
The word "liberal" in liberal Christianity does not necessarily refer to a leftist political agenda but rather to insights developed during the Enlightenment.
Generally speaking, Enlightenment-era liberalism saw humans as political creatures and held liberty of thought and expression among the highest human values.
The development of liberal Christianity owes much to the works of the philosophers Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) and Friedrich Schleiermacher (1768-1834).
Overall, liberal Christianity is a product of a continuing philosophical dialogue.
In the 19th century, self-identified liberal Christians sought to elevate Jesus' humane teachings as a standard for a world civilization freed from cultic traditions and from traces of "pagan" belief in the supernatural.
As a result, liberal Christians placed less emphasis on miraculous events associated with the life of Jesus than on his teachings.
(The effort to remove "superstitious" elements from Christian faith dates to intellectual reformist Christians such as Erasmus (1466-1536) and the Deists in the 15th–17th centuries.)
The debate over whether a belief in miracles was mere superstition or essential to accepting the divinity of Christ constituted a crisis within the 19th-century church, for which theological compromises were sought.
The Jefferson Bible, or The Life and Morals of Jesus of Nazareth as it is formally titled, represents the efforts of Thomas Jefferson (1743-1826) to extract the doctrine of Jesus by removing sections of the New Testament containing supernatural aspects as well as perceived misinterpretations which he believed the Four Evangelists had added.
Many 20th-century liberal Christians felt the influence of the philosophers Edmund Husserl (1859-1938) and Martin Heidegger (1889-1976).
Examples of important liberal Christian thinkers include Rudolf Bultmann (1884-1976) and John A.T. Robinson (1919-1983).
Christian existentialism is a form of Christianity that draws extensively from the writings of Søren Kierkegaard.
Kierkegaard initiated the school of thought when he reacted against Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's claims of universal knowledge and what he deemed to be the empty formalities of the 19th century church.
Christian existentialism places an emphasis on the undecidability of faith, individual passion, and the subjectivity of knowledge.
Although Kierkegaard's writings weren't initially embraced, they became widely known at the beginning of the 20th century.
Later Christian existentialists synthesized Kierkegaardian themes with the works of thinkers such as Friedrich Nietzsche, Walter Benjamin, and Martin Buber.
Paul Tillich, Lincoln Swain, Gabriel Marcel, and John Macquarrie are examples of leading Christian existentialist writers, building upon a legacy of neo-orthodox thinkers like Karl Barth and Emil Brunner, who similarly disdained the propositionalism of traditionalist Protestantism.
Although philosophical theology per se can be traced back centuries, the idea of a "Continental" philosophical theology came about in 1997 with the formation of the Society for Continental Philosophy and Theology as part of the Society for Existential Philosophy and Phenomenology.
The movement was fueled heavily by the slew of notable post-Heideggerian philosophers that appeared on the European continent and in the United States in the 1970s and 1980s.
Groundbreaking works such as Carl Raschke's The End of Theology, Mark C. Taylor'<nowiki/>s Erring, Charles Winquist's Desiring Theology, Jean-Luc Marion's God Without Being and John D. Caputo's The Prayers and Tears of Jacques Derrida ushered in the era of continental philosophical theology.
After 2000 the main interest in Continental philosophical theology shifted to Christian evangelicals and the Emergent Church movement with the influential publisher Baker Academic Books leading the way through its "Church and Postmodern Culture" series.
Radical orthodoxy is a form of continental philosophical theology that has been influenced by the works of reformed theologian Karl Barth, Catholic theologians Henri de Lubac, Hans Urs von Balthasar, and phenomenological French Catholic philosopher Jean-Luc Marion.
It is a style of theology that seeks to examine classic Christian writings and related Neoplatonic texts from a contemporary, philosophically continental perspective.
The movement finds in writers such as Augustine of Hippo and Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite valuable sources of insight and meaning relevant to modern society and Christianity at large.
John Milbank, Catherine Pickstock, Graham Ward, and James K.A.
Smith are leading proponents of radical orthodoxy.
The movement is also related to postliberalism, a movement of theology whose chief advocate is Stanley Hauerwas which rejects liberal methods of hermeneutics and Enlightenment assumptions regarding epistemology.
The hermeneutics of religion is another form of continental philosophical theology.
The system of hermeneutic interpretation developed by Paul Ricœur has heavily influenced the school of thought.
A central theme in the hermeneutics of religion is that God exists outside the confines of the human imagination.
Richard Kearney is a prominent advocate of the movement.
Weak theology is a manner of thinking about theology from a deconstructive point of view.
The style of thought owes a debt to Jacques Derrida, especially in light of his idea of a "weak force."
Weak theology is weak because it takes a non-dogmatic, perspectival approach to theology.
Proponents of weak theology believe that dominant contemporary explications of theology are inherently ideological, totalizing, and militant.
In response, weak theology expresses itself through acts of interpretation.
According to Caputo, the distinctive reinterpretive act of weak theology has resulted in the notion of the weakness of God.
In the body of thought, the paradigm of God as an overwhelming physical or metaphysical force is regarded as mistaken.
The old God-of-power is displaced with the idea of God as an unconditional claim without force.
As a claim without force, the God of weak theology does not physically or metaphysically intervene in nature.
Weak theology emphasizes the responsibility of humans to act in this world here and now.
Because God is thought of as weak and as a call, weak theology places an emphasis on the "weak" human virtues of forgiveness, hospitality, openness, and receptivity.
In each of these virtues, a metaphoric "power of powerlessness" is at work.
John D. Caputo and Gianni Vattimo have recently completed works that further develop the idea of a weak theology, with Slavoj Zizek also developing similar themes in his work.
Earlier, liberation theologians such as Jurgen Moltmann also dealt with concepts such as the kenotic, or self-emptying nature of God in Christ.
Peter Rollins, a major influence on the emerging church movement, has also turned toward the direction of radical theology and become a major influence on various strands of postmodern Christianity.
Roger Haight (born 1936) is an American Jesuit theologian.
He is the past president of the Catholic Theological Society of America.
He received his B.A.
(1960) and the M.A.
in Philosophy (1961) from Berchmans College, Cebu City, Philippines; his S.T.B.
from Woodstock College, Maryland (1967); the M.A.
in Theology (1969) and the Ph.D. in Theology (1973) from the University of Chicago; and the S.T.L.
from the Jesuit School of Theology at Chicago.
Haight was the recipient of the “Alumnus of the Year, 2005” award from the Divinity School of the University of Chicago in April, 2006.
He taught at the Jesuit graduate schools of theology in Manila, Chicago, Toronto, and Cambridge, MA.
He has also been a visiting professor in Lima, Nairobi, Paris, and in the Indian city of Pune.
Haight is currently a scholar-in-residence at Union Theological Seminary in New York City.
In 2004, the Vatican’s education office barred Haight from teaching at the Jesuit Weston School of Theology in response to questions about his book Jesus Symbol of God (Orbis, 1999).
The book is the winner of the 1999 top prize in theology from the U.S. Catholic Press Association.
In September 2004, Haight began teaching at Union Theological Seminary, a leading multi-denominational seminary as an adjunct professor of theology.
In 2005 he wrote The Future of Christology in response to questions and concerns about Jesus Symbol of God.
In January 2009 the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF) publicly barred Haight from writing on theology and forbade him to teach anywhere, including non-Catholic institutions.
The Vatican objects to Haight’s attempts to separate Christology from Greek philosophical concepts, specifically in relation to the formulation of the mystery of the Trinity, the interpretation of Christ’s divinity and the role of Jesus in salvation.
The clarifications Haight provided in 2000 were judged unsatisfactory by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, and in January 2001 the congregation proceeded to a formal investigation.
The Bachelor of Sacred Theology ( ; abbreviated S.T.B.)
is a graduate-level academic degree in theology.
The Bachelor of Sacred Theology is offered by a number of Pontifical Universities.
It is sometimes offered as a graduate degree, for students who have already completed a B.A.
or other first degree.
It can also be offered as an "ecclesiastical degree", granted directly by church hierarchy after one has completed requirements in addition to those necessary for a civil degree, but which are required for ordination.
Within the Catholic Church, the S.T.B.
is the first of three ecclesiastical degrees in theology (the second and third are the Licentiate of Sacred Theology and Doctor of Sacred Theology respectively), and as such is granted by pontifical faculties under the authority of the Holy See.
It is awarded upon successful completion of the first cycle, a three-year course of studies that aims for a comprehensive competence in theology.
Despite its name, the S.T.B.
is a graduate degree, at least in the United States.
While acceptance to an S.T.B.
programme always requires at least two prior years' undergraduate study of philosophy, as well as knowledge of the Latin and Greek languages, in the United States a completed undergraduate degree is generally required for admission to an S.T.B.
programme.
Thus it is roughly equivalent academically to an M.Div.
(although the S.T.B.
has a more academic focus while the M.Div.
has a more pastoral focus), and the two are sometimes granted together.
Faculties which offer the degree Bachelor of Sacred Theology include The Catholic University of America, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (Belgium), and Tilburg University (Netherlands); also the Pázmány Péter Catholic University (Budapest) over five years.
(The five years include two years of philosophy and three years of sacred theology).
Graham Ward (born 25 October 1955) has been Regius Professor of Divinity at Oxford since 2012.
He is a priest of the Church of England and was formerly the Samuel Ferguson Professor of Philosophical Theology and Ethics and the Head of the School of Arts, Histories and Cultures at the University of Manchester.
Previous to that he was the Professor of Contextual Theology and Ethics (1998–2009) and Senior Fellow in Religion and Gender (1997–1998) at the university.
Prior to this he was, successively, a chaplain and fellow at Exeter College, Oxford, a part-time lecturer at the University of Birmingham and the Dean and Director of Studies for Theology at Peterhouse, Cambridge.
He was ordained deacon in 1990 and priest in 1991, having originally studied English and French at Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge and then studied theology at Selwyn College while training for ordination at Westcott House.
Ward has engaged in different fields of theology (especially postmodern theology and other disciplines such as philosophy, psychoanalysis, gender studies and Queer Theory.
He has written on the theology of language, postmodernism, cultural analysis and christology.
His contemporary research focuses on Christian social ethics, political theory and cultural hermeneutics.
He is editor of three book series: Radical Orthodoxy (Routledge), Christian Theology in Context (OUP) and Illuminations: Religion & Theory (Blackwell).
Anna Katharina Seidel (1938 &ndash; September 29, 1991) was a German Sinologist who was regarded as an authority in the study of Taoism.
During her 22 years at the Institut du Hobogirin of the Ecole Francaise d’Extreme-Orient in Kyoto, Seidel had become the centre of gravity for the many Western scholars of East Asian studies who ventured to the ancient Japanese capital to conduct research.
The youngest of three children, Seidel was born in Berlin, Germany, but spent most of her childhood in the southern city of Munich.
During the Nazi era, her father, who was an aviation engineer, bravely stood by her mother, who was descendant of a distinguished German-Jewish family; they illegally sheltered a Jewish friend at their home throughout the Second World War, risking a death penalty.
Seidel’s parents encouraged her to pursue intellectual interests from an early age.
Having been trained in the fundamentals of Sinology at the University of Munich (1958&ndash;1960) and the University of Hamburg (1961), Seidel specialised in the study of Chinese religions in Paris, where she studied under two eminent German expatriates, Maxime Kaltenmark and Rolf A. Stein from 1961 to 1968.
Her doctoral dissertation, La divinisation de Lao-tseu dans le taoisme des Han is regarded as a groundbreaking study in the field.
In 1969, Seidel was elected into membership of the Ecole Francaise d'Extreme-Orient and despatched to Kyoto, the ancient capital of Japan, where she lived until her death.
Here her work was centered upon the compilation of the Hobogirin, a multivolume encyclopedic dictionary of Buddhism.
She simultaneously had the opportunity to continue her own research on Taoism, becoming one of the world's leading experts in this subject.
After a brief marriage to the Bostonian scholar Holmes Welch, with whom she co-edited Facets of Taoism (1979), Seidel devoted her life completely to her scholarship and to the Hobogirin Institute.
In 1978, she taught Chinese religion as a visiting professor at the University of Hawaii and at the University of California, Santa Barbara in 1988; she repeatedly rejected lucrative offers from eminent American universities.
In 1985, she started the bilingual journal Cahiers d'Extreme-Asie, which has since become established as an important publication in the study of East Asian religions.
The stated purpose of the journal was to draw scholars in Europe, America, and East Asia closer together.
Seidel’s position in Kyoto put her in a unique position to serve as a link between the various geographic communities of scholars.
She was an international scholar: German in her upbringing and cultural identity, French by citizenship and education, residing and working in Japan, and wooed by the English-speaking academic establishment.
Her published works communicated her thoughts with a clarity which she achieved by avoiding stylistic embellishments and by making no concessions to fashionable theoretical terminology.
Seidel's viewpoint on Chinese religion as depicted in her article "Taoism" written for the 15th edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica (1975), broke the orthodox mould.
While her work was founded on early religious texts, which she subjected to the most rigorous philological scrutiny, her analysis of religion extended to all aspects of culture.
She placed her main emphasis on religious practice in its historical context, rather than becoming entangled in doctrinal speculation.
Seidel was as atheist and did not practice Taoism; despite this, she was noted for approaching religious phenomena with a high level of empathy.
Although Seidel she did not undertake long-term systematic fieldwork on Chinese religion, she paid meticulous attention to contemporary religious phenomena, which she interpreted as a continuum with ancient textual traditions.
She had a strongly comparative perspective on religion, and consistently observed and recorded the religious landscape wherever she traveled.
Her important collections of documents remain in the keeping of the Hobogirin Institute.
Seidel died before writing a major synthesis of her research field, though there were some initial attempts in such a direction (the booklet Taoismus, Die inoffizielle Hochreligion Chinas and her magisterial Chronicle of Taoist Studies in the West, 1950-1990).
Her work remained unfinished at the time of her death.
Johann Philipp Gabler (June 4, 1753 – February 17, 1826) was a German Protestant Christian theologian of the school of Johann Jakob Griesbach and Johann Gottfried Eichhorn.
Gabler was born at Frankfurt-am-Main.
In 1772 he entered the University of Jena as a theological student.
In 1776 he was on the point of abandoning theology when the arrival of Griesbach inspired within him a new enthusiasm for the subject.
After having been successively Repetent in the University of Göttingen and teacher in the public schools of Dortmund (Westphalia) and Altdorf (Bavaria), he was appointed second professor of theology at the University of Altdorf in 1785, then promoted to a chair in Jena in 1804, where he succeeded Griesbach in 1812 and remained until his death.
At Altdorf, Gabler published (1791–93) a new edition, with introduction and notes, of Eichhorn's Urgeschichte.
This was followed, two years later, by a supplement entitled Neuer Versuch uber die mosaische Schopfungsgeschichte.
He also wrote many essays characterized by critical acumen, and which had considerable influence on the course of German thought in various issues within theology and Biblical studies.
From 1798 to 1800 he was editor of the Neuestes theologisches Journal, first jointly with H.K.A.
Hänlein (1762–1829), Christoph Friedrich von Ammon and Heinrich Eberhard Gottlob Paulus, and afterwards as sole editor; from 1801 to 1804 of the Journal für theologische Litteratur; and from 1805 to 1811 of the Journal für auserlesene theologische Litteratur.
Some of his essays were published by his sons (2 vols., 1831); and a memoir appeared in 1827 by W. Schröter.
Gabler is widely considered to be the father of modern biblical theology because of his 1787 inaugural address at University of Altdorf: On the Correct Distinction Between Dogmatic and Biblical Theology and the Right Definition of Their Goals.
Gabler sharply distinguished between biblical and dogmatic theology.
For him, biblical theology was simply historical investigation into the beliefs of the biblical authors as they stand in the text.
It is purely descriptive and uninfluenced by the viewpoints of modern thinkers.
On the other hand, dogmatic theology is a systematized construction, built on the foundation of biblical theology and contextualized — applied to the context or era in which it is to be proclaimed.
Elaine L. Graham is the Grosvenor Research Professor at the University of Chester.
She was until October 2009 the Samuel Ferguson Professor of Social and Pastoral Theology at the University of Manchester.
In March 2014, she was installed as Canon Theologian of Chester Cathedral.
Elaine Graham holds a BSc (Social Science) (Hons) in Sociology and Economic and Social History (1980) from the University of Bristol, a MA in Social and Pastoral Theology from the University of Manchester (1988) and a PhD entitled "The Implications of Theories of Gender for Christian Pastoral Practice and Theological Formulation" (1993), also from Manchester.
After working as the Northern Regional Secretary of the Student Christian Movement (1981–84) and four years as ecumenical lay chaplain at Sheffield City Polytechnic (now Sheffield Hallam University), Elaine Graham joined the University of Manchester in 1988 as a lecturer in Social and Pastoral Theology.
She was appointed to the position of Samuel Ferguson Professor of Social and Pastoral Theology, succeeding Ronald Preston (1970–81) and Tony Dyson (1981–98) in June 1998.
She later held the position of Head of the School of Religions and Theology & Middle Eastern Studies from 2000 to 2004.
Elaine Graham was the President of the International Academy of Practical Theology from 2005 to 2007 and was a member of the Archbishops' Commission on Urban Life and Faith, which published the report Faithful Cities: A call for celebration, vision and justice (Methodist Publishing House, 2006).
In 2009 she moved to the Department of Theology and Religious Studies at the University of Chester as Grosvenor Research Professor in Practical Theology.
In 2014 she was installed as the Canon Theologian of Chester Cathedral in a lay capacity.
She has been described as 'the dean of British practical theology' and one of the world's leading figures in practical and public theology.
This is a list of books that Graham has published or edited.
In addition, she has also written a number of articles in edited volumes and academic journals.
University of Chester Staff Page: [www.chester.ac.uk/departments/trs/staff/graham] Publications on Chester Repository (open access): [1] <references>     </references>
David William Brown FBA FRSE (born 1948) is an Anglican priest and theologian who currently serves as Professor of Theology, Aesthetics and Culture in the Institute for Theology, Imagination and the Arts and as Wardlaw Professor at St Mary's College, University of St Andrews.
Born in the Borders of Scotland (Galashiels) and brought up on Islay, Brown received his initial degree in Classics at the University of Edinburgh (1970).
From 1970 to 2007, his academic career was spent in England.
In 1972, Brown received First Class Honours in Philosophy and Theology from Oxford University, and in 1976 he received his Doctorate in Ethics from Cambridge University.
From 1976 to 1990 Brown served as Tutor in Theology and Philosophy at Oriel College and University Lecturer in Ethics and Philosophical Theology at Oxford.
During this time, he was also ordained as a priest of the Church of England (1977).
Brown's early interests were concerned with the interactions between theology and philosophy, reflected in the two major works, The Divine Trinity (1985) and Continental Philosophy and Modern Theology (1987).
From 1990 to 2007, Brown served as Van Mildert Professor of Divinity at Durham University.
While at Durham, Brown's interests shifted from the engagement between theology and philosophy to the engagement between theology and the wider culture, especially the arts.
Between 1999 and 2008, Brown has published five major books with Oxford University Press: Tradition and Imagination (1999), Discipleship and Imagination (2000), God and Enchantment of Place (2004), God and Grace of Body (2007) and God and Mystery in Words (2008).
From 1998 to 2007, Brown served as Canon as well as Chapter Librarian & Curator at Durham Cathedral, during which time he was elected a Fellow of the British Academy.
In the autumn of 2007, Brown returned to Scotland to take up his post at the Institute for Theology, Imagination and the Arts (ITIA), St Mary's College.
From 6–8 September 2010, ITIA held a conference entitled, 'Theology, Aesthetics and Culture: Conversations with the Work of David W Brown', which featured careful theological, historical, biblical, philosophical, and literary engagement with Brown's five major OUP volumes.
Among those who delivered papers were:
Heup Young Kim (김흡영 金洽榮, b.
1949, South Korea) is a Korean Christian theologian and a scholar of East Asian religions (Confucianism and Taoism), specialized in Asian constructive theology, interfaith dialogue, and religion and science.
He is Professor of Systematic Theology at Kangnam University in South Korea and was a dean of the College of Humanities and Liberal arts, the Graduate School of Theology, and the University Chapel.
Kim is one of the founding members of the International Society for Science and Religion, was a co-moderator of the 6th and 7th Congress of Asian Theologians, and is the current president of the Korean Society of Systematic Theology.
After graduating from the Engineering College of Seoul National University, he worked as an airplane mechanic for Korean Air Lines and then was hired to work in the Planning Office of Daewoo Corporation.
During the Korean economic boom of the 70's, he became a representative of Samhwa Corporation in New York City, a general trading company (import/export) for many products, such as shoes and silk.
Then, he had a religious conversion from Confucianism to Christianity, which made him dramatically move into theological studies.
from Princeton Theological Seminary, and a Ph.D. from the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, California (directed by Claude Welch).
He has carried out extensive research in the areas of Asian constructive theology, interreligious dialogue, comparative theology, and science and religion.
He has been a senior fellow at the Harvard University Center for the Study of World Religions and the Doshisha University Center for Interdisciplinary Study of Monotheistic Religions, a visiting fellow at the University of Cambridge Centre for Advanced Religious Theological Studies and University of Oxford, and a visiting scholar at the Graduate Theological Union Center for Theology and the Natural Sciences (CTNS).
Kim has received numerous honors and awards including the Graduate Theological Union Alum of the Year for 2009, the Global Perspectives on Science and Spirituality (2005-6), John Templeton Foundation Research grant (2004-5), and Kangnam University Most Distinguished Research Professor Award (2003).
He has also published numerous works in the areas of interfaith dialogue, theology of religions, Asian theology, and science and religion, in both English and Korean, including Wang Yang-ming and Karl Barth: A Confucian-Christian Dialogue (1996), Toward a Theology of the Tao (2000), Christ and the Tao (2003), Contemporary Natural Sciences and Christianity (2006), and Theology of the Tao II (2012).
Theology Proper is the sub-discipline of Systematic Theology which deals specifically with the being, attributes and works of God.
In a Christian setting, this study includes Trinitarian, the Holy Spirit (Pneumatology) and the study of Jesus Christ (Christology).
'God-word') is popularly described as 'talk about God' or God-talk, but is usually used in the generic sense to describe religious studies.
Trinitarian theology is a systematic theology position that defines the Trinity of the Godhead as a foundational doctrine that permeates all areas of Christian theology as opposed to one point of doctrine in systematics.
Although trinitarian theology has been present throughout the history of the church and was represented by the Cappadocian Fathers, it has experienced a renaissance starting in the 20th century.
Ted Peters (born 1941) is a Lutheran theologian and Professor of Systematic Theology at Pacific Lutheran Theological Seminary.
In addition to his work as a theologian and educator, he is a prolific author and editor on Christian and Lutheran theology in the modern world.
He is also the editor of Dialog, a quarterly scholarly magazine of modern and postmodern theology, and co-editor of Theology and Science.
He received a B.A.
from Michigan State University, a M.Div.
from Trinity Lutheran Seminary and a M.A.
and Ph.D. from the University of Chicago.
Dr Simon Chan is a Christian theologian, who is the Earnest Lau Professor of Systematic Theology and Dean of Studies (Ag) at Trinity Theological College, Singapore.
He is the author of: Man & Sin, Pentecostal Theology & Christian Spiritual Tradition, Liturgical Theology and Spiritual Theology.
He edits the Trinity Theological Journal.
His denomination is Assemblies of God.
The Alphonsian Academy is a pontifical institution of higher education in Rome, Italy.
The Academy is a theology study institute.
Its establishment was inspired by the teachings of St. Alphonsus de Liguori.
The Alphonsian Academy was founded in 1949 by the Redemptorists.
Since 1960, the Academy has specialized in moral theology as a part of the Faculty of Theology of the Pontifical Lateran University.
The Academy grants both the licentiate and the doctoral degrees in Moral Theology.
Nikolaos P. Xionis ( ) is Professor of Systematic Theology in the Faculty of Theology of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens.
Born in Volos, he studied Theology at the Aristotle University of Thessalonica.
He pursued postgraduate studies at the Jesuit Sankt Georgen Graduate School of Philosophy and Theology at Frankfurt and at the Centre for Eastern Christian Studies in Ratisbon (Ostkirchliches Institut, Regensburg).
Amongst his published works are:
The Society for the Study of Theology (SST) is the leading British organization for theologians in academy, church, and society.
The Society is the leading scholarly society for the study of theology in the U.K.
The Society for the Study of Theology promotes excellence in the study of Christian Theology by facilitating and shaping theological thought, conversation, and community.
In particular, the Society's object is to identify and discuss important themes, questions and dialogues which call for theological engagement.
The Society holds an annual conference.
Its first was held in Cambridge in 1952 on the theme of "eschatology".
Historical theology as a branch of theology investigates the socio-historical and cultural mechanisms that give rise to theological ideas, statements, and systems.
Research and methods in this field focus on the relationship between theology and its contexts, as well as on the major theological influences upon the figures and topics studied.
Historical theologians are thus concerned with the historical development of theology.
Roberto S. Goizueta (born December 8, 1954) is a Cuban American Christian theologian currently holding the Margaret O'Brien Flatley Chair in Catholic Theology at Boston College.
Some of his specialties include Latino(a) theology and Christology.
Goizueta was born in Havana, Cuba.
At the age of six he immigrated to the United States, where he attended high school in Atlanta, Georgia.
He attended Yale University and graduated with a B.A.
in political science.
After a short time in law school, he chose to attend Marquette University and pursue an M.A.
and Ph.D. in Systematic Theology in 1984, Goizueta was named one of the 10 most influential Hispanic-American educators, pastors, and theologians by The National Catholic Reporter.
His works have focused on theological aesthetics, liberation theology, and Latino theology.
Goizueta has received many awards and titles throughout his career.
He was named Doctor of Humane Letters (honoris causa) at Elms College as well as Doctor of Humane Letters (honoris causa) at the University of San Francisco.
He once acted as President of both the Catholic Theological Society of America (2004-2005) and the Academy of Catholic Hispanic Theologians of the United States (1990-1991).
In addition to being President, Goizueta was also a Board Member of the Catholic Society of America from 1998-2000.
In 1996, he received the honor of being the recipient of the Virgilio Elizondo Award, awarded by the Academy of Catholic Hispanic Theologians of the United States.
He is currently a professor at Boston College teaching courses in liberation theology, liberation christology, person and social responsibility, theology and culture, theological aesthetics, and U.S. Latino/a theology.
His concentrations and field of interests include Latino/a theologies, theology and culture, theological aesthetics, and christology.
Goizueta focuses on Latino theology within a liberative and aesthetic context.
In addition, he analyzes challenges to modern day theologies and compares the theological praxis of Latino Americans to others.
Goitzueta sees U.S. Latino theology as marginalized by modern day Western theology, by both theological and societal factors.
In today’s homogenized world, it is a constant challenge for unique cultures and practices to have prominence in such a world.
If they are able to break this barrier, it is an even greater challenge to integrate without losing the distinctive qualities of one's practice (in his case, Latino theology) to the homogenization/Americanization/Westernization that much of the world is subjugated to.
In comparing Western praxis to U.S. Latino praxis, Goizueta asserts that the “Western subject forges a self-identity by distancing himself or herself from community and tradition in order to achieve autonomy and independence” (92).
Conversely, U.S. Latinos focus their identity on tradition, rituals, and community.
While Western praxis has been derived from notions developed during the Enlightenment as more a “superstitious attempt at spiritual manipulation”, U.S. Latinos see praxis as a way of reaffirmation ones relationship with God (92).
Anglican theologies are the most prominent because they have been accepted as the universal in their rational nature.
Many important aspects of Catholicism have been lost in today’s world as a result, but U.S. Latino theology, he argues, maintains many of these aspects.
Goizueta sees dialogue as a means of liberation in that Latino Theologies, feminist theology, African American theology, etc.
have been contextualized and forced out from the broader theological scene as western theologies are seen as more universal and objective.
Goizueta believes that the inherent communal nature of Christianity and obligation to understanding and acceptance is something contextualized theologies (such as Latino theology) must utilize to reflect their importance to the greater community.
In his book Caminemos con Jesus, Goizueta analyzes the lived faith, or popular religion, of Latinos in the United States.
He specifically delves into the theology behind Holy week and the significance of Our Lady of Guadalupe.
He says that Latinos are the fastest growing ethnic group in the United States, and that one-third of Catholics in the United States are Latino.
Also in this book, He asks the question “Who is the God revealed in the practices of U.S. Catholics?” He sees God, and more specifically Jesus, as a companion for all, but in a special way for the poor and marginalized.
This Jesus, or Christo compañero, calls people and empowers people to work for justice.
Goizueta also says that the bonds of solidarity found between Latinos help affirm humanity in the face of social forces that would dehumanize them.
Goizueta is married and has three children.
Christianity in Madagascar is practiced by just under half the population of the island, often in syncretic form with traditional religious practices.
Protestantism was introduced by the first envoys of the London Missionary Society in 1818, who proselytized and taught literacy through a Malagasy language Bible at the public schools they established in the highlands at the request of King Radama I.
The number of converts remained low but gradually grew under repression during the reign of his successor, Queen Ranavalona I, and the more permissive religious policies of her son, Radama II, and his widow, Queen Rasoherina.
The spread of Protestantism among the Merina upper classes by the mid-1800s, including Queen Ranavalona II, coupled with the growing political influence of the British missionaries, led then-Prime Minister Rainilaiarivony to legislate the conversion of the royal court.
This prompted widespread popular conversion to Protestantism throughout the highlands in the late 1800s.
Roman Catholicism was introduced principally through French diplomats and missionaries beginning in the mid-19th century, but only gained significant converts under French colonization of Madagascar beginning in 1896.
The early spread of Protestantism among the Merina elite resulted in a degree of class and ethnic differentiation among practitioners of Christianity, with the association of Protestantism with the upper classes and Merina ethnic group, and Catholicism attracting more adherents among the popular classes and coastal regions.
Practitioners of Protestantism slightly outnumber adherents to Catholicism.
Approximately half of the country's population practice traditional religion, </ref> which attributes all of creation to a single god, called Zanahary or Andriamanitra.
In addition, it tends to emphasize links between the living and the razana (ancestors).
The veneration of ancestors has led to the widespread tradition of tomb building, as well as the highlands practice of the famadihana, whereby a deceased family member's remains may be exhumed to be periodically re-wrapped in fresh silk shrouds before being replaced in the tomb.
The first formal European-style school was established in 1818 on the east coast of Madagascar at Toamasina by members of the London Missionary Society (LMS).
King Radama I (1810–1828), the first sovereign to bring about half the island of Madagascar under his rule, was interested in strengthening ties with European powers; to this end, he invited LMS missionaries to open a school in his capital at Antananarivo within the Rova palace compound to instruct the royal family in literacy, numeracy and basic education.
This first school, known as the Palace School, was established by LMS missionary David Jones on 8 December 1820 within Besakana, a Rova building of great historic and cultural significance.
Within months, due to the rapid increase in the number interested in studying there, classes were transferred to a larger, purpose-built structure on the Rova grounds.
Beginning in December 1820, LMS missionaries established workshops in Antananarivo to teach trades and technical skills, and developed a network of public schools.
By 1822, LMS missionaries had successfully transcribed the Merina dialect of the Malagasy language using the Latin alphabet.
This dialect, spoken in the central highlands around Antananarivo, was declared the official version of the Malagasy language that year – a status that the highlands dialect has retained ever since.
The Bible, which was incrementally translated into this dialect and printed on a press, was the first book printed in the Malagasy language and became the standard text used to teach literacy.
Convinced that Western schooling was vital to developing Madagascar's political and economic strength, in 1825 Radama declared primary schooling to be compulsory for the andriana (nobles) throughout Imerina.
Schools were constructed in larger towns throughout the central highlands and staffed with teachers from the LMS and other missionary organizations.
By the end of Radama's reign in 1829, 38 schools were providing basic education to over 4,000 students in addition to the 300 students studying at the Palace School, teaching dual messages of loyalty and obedience to Radama's rule and the fundamentals of Christian theology.
These schools also provided Radama with a ready pool of educated conscripts for his military activities; consequently, some andriana families sent slave children to spare their own offspring from the perils of military life, exposing an educated minority among the lower classes of Merina society to the tenets of Christianity.
An additional 600 students received vocational training under Scottish missionary James Cameron.
Despite high attendance at the schools, the LMS were initially unsuccessful in converting pupils to Christianity.
Near the end of Radama's reign, the king perceived the few Malagasy who had been converted as irreverent toward royal authority.
He forbade Malagasy people from being baptized or attending Christian services.
Radama died in 1828 and was succeeded by his widow, Ranavalona I.
Her succession initially resulted in a relaxation of state control over Christianity.
The island's first printing press, which was imported by LMS missionaries at the end of Radama's reign, was only effectively put into operation in 1828.
The press was in heaviest use during the first several years of Ranavalona's reign, when thousands of hymnals and other materials were transcribed and printed.
Translation of the New Testament was completed in the second year of her reign, and 3,000 copies were printed and distributed between 1829 and 1830.
From the beginning of her reign, Ranavalona forbade the distribution of books within the military to prevent subversion and preserve discipline.
She allowed missionaries free rein in operating the printing press, however, and exempted from military service all Malagasy personnel trained to operate the press.
In 1835, translation of the Old Testament was completed and the first copies were printed.
The freedom allowed to LMS and Malagasy Christians to print religious materials and teach religion in the state schools during the first six years of Ranavalona's reign allowed the religion to become firmly established among a small but growing group of converts in and around the capital.
In 1831 Ranavalona authorized Malagasy attendance at church services, administration of the sacrament, and baptism of her subjects.
Within a year, the first 100 Malagasy were baptized out of an estimated 200 practicing Christians total; these converts were drawn from all social classes, including slaves, commoners, respected elders, court officials and even sampy guardians, who were considered the bulwarks of traditional culture.
The conversion of major religious, political and social leaders sparked a backlash that led Ranavalona to become increasingly wary of the political and cultural effects of Christianity, which she saw as leading the Malagasy to forsake the ancestors and their traditions.
In October and November 1831 the queen enacted a ban on Christian marriages, church services and baptisms for soldiers and members of government studying in the Missionary schools, and in December extended the ban on church service attendance to all Malagasy.
From 1832 to 1834, baptisms and church services continued, increasingly in secret.
During this time, several Christians each year were charged with witchcraft and exiled or made to undergo the tangena ordeal, and Ranavalona requested the departure of three missionaries, retaining only those whose particular technical skills she viewed as valuable to the state.
In 1835, the queen attempted to shut down the press without directly targeting the LMS by banning Malagasy personnel from working at the printing house.
The LMS missionaries, capitalizing on the absence of legal decrees against their own work at the press, managed to continue independently printing and distributing materials.
In a kabary speech on 26 February 1835, Queen Ranavalona formally forbade the practice of Christianity among her subjects.
In her discourse, she was careful to differentiate between her own people, for whom the new religion was forbidden and its practice a capital offense, and foreigners, to whom she permitted freedom of religion and conscience.
She furthermore acknowledged the valuable intellectual and technological contributions that European missionaries had made to the advancement of her country, and invited them to continue working to that end on the condition that their proselytizing would cease: The majority of the London Missionary Society missionaries, whose primary activity was teaching Christian theology and literacy at their newly established schools using the Bible as the principal Malagasy-language text, departed the island.
James Cameron and other key missionaries preferred to leave rather than remain on the island without authorization to proselytize.
The last two remaining missionaries chose to continue teaching practical skills in the hope that the restrictions might loosen, but one year later, after receiving indirect information that the government desired their departure, they shuttered the LMS mission and left Madagascar.
Upon Ranavalona's death in 1861, she was succeeded by her reformist son, Radama II, who rapidly repealed many of his mother's policies.
Freedom of religion was declared, persecution of Christians ceased, missionaries returned to the island and their schools were authorized to be reopened.
However, Radama's disregard for the counsel of his advisers warning against too abrupt a process of modernization produced a coup d'état, in which Radama was presumably killed and power effectively transferred to Prime Minister Rainivoninahitriniony.
He was succeeded by Rainilaiarivony, who wed Radama's widow Rasoherina and governed from 1864 until his exile in 1895 following French capture of the capital in September 1894.
Rainilaiarivony's second royal wife, Ranavalona&nbsp;II (crowned on 3 September 1868 following Rasoherina's death), was a pupil of Protestant missionaries and had converted to Christianity.
Rainilaiarivony recognized the growing power of Christianity on the island and identified the need to bring it under his influence in order to avert destabilizing cultural and political power struggles.
The Prime Minister encouraged the new queen to Christianize the court through a public baptism ceremony at Andohalo on 21 February 1869, the day of their marriage.
In this ceremony the supernatural royal talismans were ordered to be destroyed and replaced by the Bible.
The Christianization of the court and the establishment of the independent royal Protestant chapel on the palace grounds prompted the wide-scale conversion of hundreds of thousands of Malagasy.
These conversions were commonly motivated by a desire to express political allegiance to the Crown, and as such were largely nominal, with the majority of converts practicing a syncretic blend of Christian and traditional religions.
Rainilaiarivony's biographers conclude that the Prime Minister's own conversion was also largely a political gesture and most likely did not denote a genuine spiritual shift until late in his life, if ever.
Some local officials attempted to force conversions to Protestantism by mandating church attendance and persecuting Catholics, but Rainilaiarivony quickly responded to quell these overzealous practices.
The Prime Minister's criminalization of polygamy and alcohol consumption, as well as the declaration of Sunday as a day of rest, were likewise inspired by the growing British and Protestant influences in the country.
Today, many Christians integrate their religious beliefs with traditional ones related to honoring the ancestors.
For instance, the Malagasy may bless their dead at church before proceeding with traditional burial rites or invite a Christian minister to consecrate a famadihana reburial.
Approximately a quarter of the population is Protestant.
The Church of Jesus Christ in Madagascar (FJKM), a Reformed Protestant church with 2.5 million adherents, is the most important religious association in Madagascar; former president Marc Ravalomanana served as its vice-president.
About one fifth of the population is Catholic.
There are 21 Catholic dioceses in Madagascar, including five archdioceses.
The Malagasy Council of Churches (FFKM) comprises the four oldest and most prominent Christian denominations (Roman Catholic, Church of Jesus Christ in Madagascar, Lutheran, and Anglican) and has been an influential force in Malagasy politics.
In the disputed 2001 presidential elections the FFKM rallied behind Protestant candidate Ravalomanana, whose electoral slogan was "Don't be afraid, only believe."
Khekada is a city and a Nagar Palika Parishad of Baghpat district in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh.
It is 28 Kolometres from Delhi ISBT & 37 Kilometres from New Delhi Parliament of India.
The name Khekada is also pronounced Khekra.
Khekada is situated on the Delhi – Saharanpur State Highway No-57 at a distance of 28 Kilometres from Delhi ISBT and 10 Kilometres from South of Baghpat District.
Khekada is also a multi-religious place with many Hindu Temples, Churches, Jain temples and mosques.
From the commercial point of view, Khekada has great importance.
The City has a famous Anaj Mandi called and District Hq of Krishi Utpadan Mandi at Duhdahera Road & Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Near Tahseel Complex.Harsh Sharma khekra shah garden colony.
At the 2011 India census, Khekada had a population nearby 40,000.
Males constitute 54% of the population and females 46%.
Khekada had an average literacy rate of 62%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy was 70% and female literacy was 52%.
In Khekada, 16% of the population were under 6 years of age.
The city's is oldest Town Area Committee in all over Baghpat district and established in 1884 with Kanpur City.
This City main commercial activities include making stainless steel utensils, Hathkargha Udyog, Hnadicraft power looms and agricultural and farming equipment.
Almost all the production of the handloom and power loom units of Khekada is exporting to the western world and getting foreign money every year nearby 1000 Crore.
Its textile industry is famous for home furnishing items like rug, kitchen towels, curtains, table covers, bedsheets, place mats, quilts and napkins.
The iron industries manufacture agricultural items like cutters to sale in All over in India.
Khekada is served by railway and buses, though there is no bus terminus in the City.
The transport facility is also available hourswise from Khekra Railway station to The Temple.
The worls most famous Temple of Jainies is Sadhu Vritti Ashram, Baragaon village and also drop at Shri Parasnath Prachin temple, Baragaon village and Trilok Teerth, Baragaon village The railway station is famous, as this was inaugurated by Indira Gandhi in 1972 as a broad gauge line; earlier it was a narrow gauge, famously called Choti Line.
Santo Ka Bara is a religious place situated near Tanga Stand.
There are celebrations twice a year of Santo Ka Mela, 1st at Holi and 2nd at Diwali and 3rd at Sawan Purnima.
Santo Ka Bara has many devotees from Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, U.P., Punjab and North India region, Presently Mahatma Shri Devendra Das Ji Maharaj is now Mahant of the Holy Chair.
This place is now in Mahabharat Circuit of District Baghpat.< <br> Kale Singh Temple is a temple in city and area.
The temple is situated in very green area so many people enjoy it as a picnic site and place of worship.< <br> Balaji Temple is situated in the centre of Khekada City between Pandav Ki Pulia and Yadav Chowk.< <br> Jama Masjid is a mosque situated near Pandav Ki Pulia.< <br> Shiv Mandir is in the city.
There are five temples in the city, but in Mohalla Ahiran Shiv Mandir is very famous.
Jain Temples<br> Shri Parasnath Prachin temple, Baragaon village<br> Trilok Teerth, Baragaon village<br> World famous temple Sadhu Vritti Ashram, Baragaon village<br> Shri Shantinath Digamber Jain temple, Khekada<br> Shri Mahaveer Digamber Jain temple, Khekada<br> Shri Shantinath (Chota) Digamber Jain temple, Khekada<br> Shri Adinath degamber Jain temple, Khekada<br> Shri Chandaprabhu Chatalya, Khekada Arya Temples<br> Arya Samaj Mandir Dyanand Sevaashram
Philosophical theology is both a branch and form of theology in which philosophical methods are used in developing or analyzing theological concepts.
It therefore includes natural theology as well as philosophical treatments of orthodox and heterodox theology.
Philosophical theology is also closely related to the philosophy of religion.
The relationship between theology and philosophy has been long-debated and discussed with the Christian tradition.
Tertullian, an influential early Christian theologian and apologist, believed that philosophy has little to do with theology, arguing that the use of philosophy often corrupted theology, leading to unorthodox beliefs that were not grounded in the early Christian tradition.
He famously asked the question 'What has Athens to do with Jerusalem?'.
(Athens symbolized the philosophical approach because of its role as a leading center of Hellenistic philosophy, while Jerusalem represented Christianity because of its role as an important location and intellectual centre in the early church.)
Other leaders, however, saw a closer relationship between philosophy and theology.
Justin Martyr looked at people like Heraclitus and Socrates as possessing the divine light of revelation and believed them to be true philosophers.
Justin saw Christianity as the True Philosophy and argued for Christianity using philosophical methods and terminology.
St. Augustine, who became one of the most influential theologians in history and whose works laid the foundation for much of Western philosophy (as well as much of Western theology), espoused a more middle-of-the-road, moderate approach, arguing that philosophy and theology often complement each other while at the same time cautioning that philosophy should not always be used in theological discourse.
Instead, he argued, one should make sure that a philosophical approach toward a particular issue was grounded in prior Christian commitments.
The disciplines of Philosophy and Theology have often been connected, with theologians and philosophers interacting and debating similar and sometimes overlapping issues.
Philosophy played a key role in the formation of Western theology.
Thomas Aquinas, one of the most influential philosophers and theologians in history, for instance, borrowed much of his concepts from Aristotle.
Scholasticism dominated both the philosophical and theological landscape in the Middle Ages, with theologians such as Aquinas, Anselm of Canterbury, Duns Scotus, William of Ockham, Peter Abelard, Bonaventure, and Albertus Magnus playing key role in both philosophy and theology.
In modern times, Anthony Thiselton has shown in his Fusion of Horizons the role that philosophy has played in the interpretation of scriptures, i.e., in the field of hermeneutics.
Philosophy provides interpretive grids for apprehension of revelation.
There are others, like Sadhu Sundar Singh, for instance, who believed that it is the illumination of the Holy Spirit that gives the truest meaning of revelation.
Yet, one can't fail to see that cultural grids play an important role in the development of theology.
Many contemporary philosophers continue to write and argue from a Christian perspective, with Christian concepts undergirding their philosophical work.
In recent decades some of the most well-known philosophers who have written from a Christian perspective are Alvin Plantinga, Alasdair MacIntyre, William Lane Craig, Jean-Luc Marion, Paul Tillich, Charles Taylor, Richard Swinburne, and James K. A. Smith.
During the 18th, 19th centuries, and 20th centuries many theologians reacted against the modernist, Enlightenment, and positivist attacks on Christian theology.
Some existentialistic or neo-orthodox Protestant intellectuals like the Swiss Reformed theologian Karl Barth turned away from philosophy (called fideism) and argued that faith should be based strictly upon divine revelation.
A popular approach in some circles is the approach of Reformed epistemologists, such as Alvin Plantinga and Nicholas Wolterstorff, who assert that belief in God might be foundational (or, properly 'basic') and warranted without the need for logical or evidential justification, like belief in other minds or the external world, rather than inferentially derived from other beliefs; it can, however, be subject to defeaters, rationally requiring that one give up the belief.
Many other philosophers and theologians, however, disagree with this perspective and provide alternative views.
Many other theologians have turned to continental philosophy, analytic philosophy, and postmodern philosophy in attempts to analyze and reframe the Christian theology in contemporary contexts.
While philosophical theology can denote an approach to theology which is philosophical in nature, it can also denote a specific area of theology in which philosophical methods and terminology are used to analyze theological concepts.
One task of philosophical theologians is to attempt to reconcile certain aspects of Christian doctrine with developments in philosophy.
One question concerns how to prove the existence and nature of God.
The knowledge of God is dealt with in the epistemology of religion.
There are many different perspectives with philosophical theology on such questions.
A recent development, for example, is the field called Epistemics of Divine Reality which deals exclusively with the epistemological problems surrounding the knowledge of God.
Other issues in philosophical theology proper are issues related to the nature of God and His relation to the world.
In modern times process theology, open theism and Christian panentheism have tried to look at God as the Being who is not only the Source and Ground of all being but also influenced by the people and processes of the world which he created and to which he belongs—rejecting or at least amending the classical medieval doctrine of impassibility.
Within Christology, a number of philosophical questions have been raised, such as how the divine can incarnate as a human, how the eternal can enter the temporal, and how the divine and the human can be united in one yet remain distinct.
Such questions led to earlier heresies like Arianism, Sabellianism, Docetism, etc.
Often, one's epistemic theory can play an important role in how one answers such questions.
There is, for instance, sometimes a clash between those who want to emphasize the rational foundation for theology and those who want to emphasize the empirical foundation for theology.
There has also been a contrast made between Christology from above and Christology from below.
The former emphasizes the divine side of Christ; the latter, the human side.
The human side obviously tends to look at it more empirically.
The Scriptures call the Incarnation as a mystery of godliness.
It baffles human imagination, leading many to call it a divine mystery.
Yet, philosophical theologians argue that it is also important to find a philosophical ground for asserting both the divinity and humanity of Christ.
Others theologians, however, like Rudolph Bultmann, ventured to remove any myths from the Bible, a hermeneutical approach they called demythology.
They have therefore looked at the New Testament Christology as greatly tampered with and in need of being demythologized.
There has been a separation made between the Jesus of history and the Christ of faith (see also the Quest for the Historical Jesus).
James Hal Cone (born August 5, 1938) is an American theologian, best known for his advocacy of Black liberation theology.
His 1969 book Black Theology and Black Power provided a new way to comprehensively define the distinctiveness of theology in the black church.
Cone’s work was influential from the time of the book's publication, and his work remains influential today.
His work has been both utilized and critiqued inside and outside of the African-American theological community.
He is currently the Charles Augustus Briggs Distinguished Professor of Systematic Theology at Union Theological Seminary in the City of New York.
Cone was born in Fordyce, Arkansas and grew up in Bearden, Arkansas.
He and his family attended Macedonia African Methodist Episcopal Church.
He received a B.A.
degree from Philander Smith College in Arkansas in 1958, a B.D.
degree from Garrett-Evangelical Theological Seminary in 1961, and M.A.
and Ph.D. degrees from Northwestern University in 1963 and 1965, respectively.
He taught theology and religion at Philander Smith College, Adrian College in Michigan, and beginning in 1970 at Union Theological Seminary in New York City, where he was awarded the distinguished Charles A. Briggs Chair in systematic theology in 1977.
The hermeneutic, or interpretive lens, for James Cone's theology starts with the experience of African Americans, and the theological questions he brings from his own life.
He incorporates the powerful role of the Black church in his life, as well as racism experienced by African Americans.
For Cone, the theologians he studied in graduate school did not provide meaningful answers to his questions.
This disparity became more apparent when he was teaching theology at Philander Smith College in Little Rock, Arkansas.
Cone writes, “What could Karl Barth possibly mean for black students who had come from the cotton fields of Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi, seeking to change the structure of their lives in a society that had defined black as non-being?” Cone's theology also received significant inspiration from a frustration with the Black struggle for civil rights; he felt that Black Christians in North America should not follow the "white Church", on the grounds that it was a willing part of the system that had oppressed black people.
Accordingly, his theology was heavily influenced by Malcolm X and the Black Power movement.
Martin Luther King, Jr. was also an important influence; Cone describes King as a liberation theologian before the phrase existed.
His methodology for answering the questions raised by the African American experience is a return to Scripture, and particularly to the liberative elements such as the Exodus-Sinai tradition and the life of Jesus.
However, Scripture is not the only source which shapes his theology.
In response to criticism from other black theologians (including his brother, Cecil), Cone began to make greater use of resources native to the African American Christian community for his theological work, including slave spirituals, the blues, and the writings of prominent African-American thinkers such as David Walker, Henry McNeal Turner, and W. E. B.
Du Bois.
His theology developed further in response to critiques by black women, leading Cone to consider gender issues more prominently and foster the development of womanist theology, and also in dialogue with Marxist analysis and the sociology of knowledge.
Cone's thought, along with Paul Tillich, stresses the idea that theology is not universal, but tied to specific historical contexts; he thus critiques the Western tradition of abstract theologizing by examining its social context.
Cone formulates a theology of liberation from within the context of the Black experience of oppression, interpreting the central kernel of the Gospels as Jesus' identification with the poor and oppressed, the resurrection as the ultimate act of liberation.
As part of his theological analysis, Cone argues for God's own identification with "blackness": <blockquote>The black theologian must reject any conception of God which stifles black self-determination by picturing God as a God of all peoples.
Either God is identified with the oppressed to the point that their experience becomes God's experience, or God is a God of racism....
The blackness of God means that God has made the oppressed condition God's own condition.
This is the essence of the Biblical revelation.
By electing Israelite slaves as the people of God and by becoming the Oppressed One in Jesus Christ, the human race is made to understand that God is known where human beings experience humiliation and suffering....Liberation is not an afterthought, but the very essence of divine activity.
(A Black Theology of Liberation, pp.
63-64)</blockquote> Despite his associations with the Black Power movement, however, Cone was not entirely focused on ethnicity: "Being black in America has little to do with skin color.
Being black means that your heart, your soul, your mind, and your body are where the dispossessed are."
(Black Theology and Black Power, p.&nbsp;151) In 1977, Cone wrote, with a still more universal vision: <blockquote>I think the time has come for black theologians and black church people to move beyond a mere reaction to white racism in America and begin to extend our vision of a new socially constructed humanity in the whole inhabited world...For humanity is whole, and cannot be isolated into racial and national groups.< In his 1998 essay "White Theology Revisited," however, he retains his earlier strong critique of the White church and white man for ignoring or failing to address the problem of race.
Cone wrote his doctoral thesis on Karl Barth.
His early books (Black Theology and Black Power and A Black Theology of Liberation) draw heavily on mainstream Protestant theologians such as Barth and Paul Tillich as well as the figures of the black power and black arts movement.
Womanist theologians, such as Delores Williams, have critiqued Cone for both male-centered language and for not including the experiences of black women in his sources.
Williams, in 1993, acknowledged in a footnote in her book Sisters in the Wilderness, that Cone has modified exclusive language for the reprinting of his works and acknowledged the issues with the previous language.
However, she argues that he still does not use the experiences of African-American women in his method, and therefore still needs to deal with the sexism of his work.
Other critique of Cone's theological positions has focused on the need to rely more heavily on sources reflecting black experience in general, on Cone's lack of emphasis on reconciliation within the context of liberation, and on his ideas of God and theodicy.
Aspects of Cone's theology and words for some people have been the subject of controversy in the political context of the 2008 Presidential campaign as Reverend Jeremiah Wright, at that time pastor of then-candidate Barack Obama, noted that he had been inspired by Cone's theology.
Some scholars of black theology noted that controversial quotes by Rev.
Wright may not necessarily represent black theology.
Cone responded to these alleged controversial comments by noting that he was generally writing about historic white churches and denominations that did nothing to oppose slavery and segregation rather than any white individual.
Hoover Institute fellow Stanley Kurtz, in a political commentary in National Review, wrote:
David Frank Ford (born 23 January 1948, Dublin) is an academic and public theologian.
He has been the Regius Professor of Divinity at the University of Cambridge since 1991.
His research interests include political theology, ecumenical theology, Christian theologians and theologies, theology and poetry, the shaping of universities and of the field of theology and religious studies within universities, hermeneutics, and inter-faith theology and relations.
He is the founding director of the Cambridge Inter-Faith Programme and a co-founder of the Society for Scriptural Reasoning.
Ford was raised as an Anglican in the Church of Ireland in Dublin.
His father died when he was 12 years old and he was raised by his mother, Phyllis Mary Elizabeth Ford.
For his undergraduate education, he studied at Trinity College Dublin, where he was active in politics, debate and journalism.
He was elected a scholar in classics in 1968.
After completing his degree, he interviewed for jobs at British Steel and Rolls-Royce, but then was offered a scholarship to St John's College at the University of Cambridge and decided to study theology for a few years before going into business.
He earned his bachelor's degree in theology at Cambridge and went on to earn his Master of Sacred Theology degree at Yale Divinity School; he also did graduate work at the University of Tübingen.
He gained his doctorate at Cambridge, writing his dissertation on Karl Barth and biblical narrative under the direction of Donald MacKinnon and Stephen Sykes.
The result was the book Barth and God's Story (1981).
Ford later received an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree from the University of Birmingham.
From 1976–1991 Ford was a lecturer (later senior lecturer) at the University of Birmingham.
Living in the inner city, his theology was shaped by a multi-faith experience, and he also became involved in a local Anglican church in the evangelical tradition.
As his housemate was involved in renovating derelict houses, he lived in some of those houses and became a house manager for one of them.
In the university's theology department, he became close to theologian Daniel W. Hardy and went on to marry Hardy's daughter.
In 1991 he moved to Cambridge to become the Regius Professor of Divinity at the University of Cambridge.
He is the first professor in this post who is not in the Anglican ministry.
He helped found and chairs the management committee of the Centre for Advanced Religious and Theological Studies at Cambridge.
He is a member of St John's College, a fellow of Selwyn College, and a foundation member of Trinity College.
He is highly regarded for his scholarship, wit and humour.
He is a sought-after lecturer and preacher and serves as an advisor to the bishops of the Anglican Communion.
His books have met with wide appeal; his The Modern Theologians: An Introduction to Christian Theology in the Twentieth Century (Blackwell, 1997), now in its third printing, is the leading textbook on modern Christian theology in the English-speaking world, China and Korea.
His Theology: A Very Short Introduction (Oxford University Press, 1999), part of the Very Short Introductions series, has been translated into many languages, including Chinese, Korean, Indonesian, Romanian, and Kurdish.
When Ford came to Cambridge in 1991, the theology department focused almost exclusively on Christianity.
Ford assisted in the realisation of a development plan which included a new building, a new Centre for Advanced Religious and Theological Studies, new endowed research posts, and the development of the Cambridge Theological Federation (the university's consortium of Anglican, Methodist, and United Reformed seminaries).
The university went on to add two new posts in Islamic studies, a new post in New Testament, and a new endowed post in theology and natural science.
A Roman Catholic institute and institute for Orthodox Christian theology were added to the consortium of seminaries.
The Centre for Jewish-Christian Relations was established in 1998, followed by the Centre for the Study of Muslim-Jewish Relations in 2006.
Ford was introduced to interfaith dialogue in the early 1990s while on sabbatical at the Center for Theological Inquiry in Princeton, where his father-in-law, Hardy, director of the centre, introduced him to Jewish theologian Peter Ochs.
Hardy and Ford participated in meetings of the early "textual reasoning" group founded by Ochs at the American Academy of Religion, reading the Tanakh, Bible, and Quran together with Christian and Muslim scholars.
In 1996 Ford, Hardy and Ochs founded the Society for Scriptural Reasoning; Ford has been an active promoter of scriptural reasoning in subsequent papers and lectures.
In 2002 Ford became the founding director of the Cambridge Inter-Faith Programme.
Among his activities are lectures at international conferences on Muslim-Christian relations.
In October 2007 he helped launch a letter by 138 Muslim scholars to 25 Christian leaders, including the Pope, the Orthodox Patriarchs, the Archbishop of Canterbury, and the heads of the world alliances of the Lutheran, Methodist, Baptist and Reformed churches, calling for peace and reconciliation between Christians and Muslims for the survival of the world.
The following month, he was one of the signatories on a Christian response seeking Muslim forgiveness.
In 2008 the Sternberg Foundation awarded Ford its Gold Medal for Inter-Faith Relations.
In November 2012 he was awarded the Coventry International Prize for Peace and Reconciliation (http://coventrypeaceprize.org.uk/) Ford is active both within the university and in public life.
He has been a trustee for the Center of Theological Inquiry at Princeton since 2007 and a member of the board of advisors for the John Templeton Foundation since 2008.
Other professional memberships include the American Academy of Religion and the Society of Biblical Literature.
He is an editorial board member of Modern Theology, the Scottish Journal of Theology, Teaching Theology and Religion, the Irish Theological Quarterly, and the Journal of Anglican Studies.
He is an editorial advisory board member for the Current Issues in Theology series published by Cambridge University Press.
From 2003 to 2008 Ford was an academic member of the World Economic Forum Council of 100 Leaders for West-Islamic World Dialogue.
He is an external advisor for the Centre for Christian Studies in Hong Kong (since 2006), a trustee for the Golden Web Foundation, a developer of a global multimedia publishing system with a focus on pre-modern world history, heritage and culture (since 2006), and a consultant for L'Arche Communities, a federation of over 100 communities for people with severe mental disabilities (since 1993).
In 2011 he was one of 1,750 signatories to a letter to US President Barack Obama urging US intervention in the Libyan civil war.
He is married to Rev.
Deborah Ford, daughter of the late Daniel W. Hardy.
She is an assistant chaplain at Addenbrooke's Hospital, part of the Cambridge University Hospital system.
They have three children, Rebecca, Rachel and Daniel.
Karl Emanuel Robert Fricke (24 September 1861 in Helmstedt, Germany &ndash; 18 July 1930 in Bad Harzburg, Germany) was a German mathematician, known for his work in complex analysis, especially on elliptic, modular and automorphic functions.
He was one of the main collaborators of Felix Klein, with whom he produced two classic two volume monographs on elliptic modular functions and automorphic functions.
In 1983 in Chicago, his paper Die Theorie der automorphen Functionen und die Arithmetik was read (but not by Fricke) at the International Mathematical Congress held in connection with the World's Columbian Exposition.
From 1894 to 1930 Fricke was professor of Higher Mathematics at the Technische Hochschule Carolo-Wilhelmina in Braunschweig.
The Six Kalimas (from Arabic kalimah "word") in Islam in South Asia are six significant parts of one's religious belief, mostly taken from hadiths (in some traditions, five phrases, then known as the five kalimas ).
The first of them, known as the <nowiki></nowiki>kalimat aṭ-ṭaiyibah or "word of purity", second is called the shahada, third "tamjeed", fourth "tawheed", fifth "istighfar" and sixth is called " rad de kufr" .
Recitation of the six kalimas is taught in Pakistani madrasas, but it is rare for average Pakistani Muslims not to be able to recite them all.
Conversely, religious leaders are expected to be able to recite them, and the Pakistani Ministry of Religious Affairs in one instance earned political criticism for appointing as head of its Council of Islamic Ideology a man who was not able to recite them.
Riaz (2008) records memorization of the six kalimas as part of the syllabus of grade 3 (darja saum) education (i.e.
taught in the third year of a five-year course) at the Deobandi school Darul Uloom Deoband in Uttar Pradesh, India.
The Silk Route Museum ( ) is located in Jiuquan, Gansu Province along the Silk Road, a trading route connecting Rome to China, used by Marco Polo.
It is also built over the tomb of the Xiliang King in Gansu Province.
Founded by Mei Ping Wu and staffed by volunteers, the museum is dedicated to the fostering of an enhanced understanding between East and West.
The museum opened in October 2009 and is dedicated to the history of the ancient Silk Road.
The museum holds in trust a collection of rare and historical artifacts dating to the time of the original Silk Road.
The museum houses an exhibition area of over 100,000 square feet which includes over 35,000 pieces from the Jade Road collection, a substantial subterranean art gallery, the Wei Jin Tombs, as well as historical sites from the Hexi Corridor of ancient China.
Exhibitions include displays of art, tools, and fossils covering the Jiuquan period, and the earliest evidence of central Asian civilization.
In the Xiliang Hall, master pieces of jade work of Neolithic origin.
A jade market open to local and outside traders, as well as, auctions and the Moon Light Cup of Jiuquan.
The show pieces possess the characteristics from the pre-historical culture to Ming and Qing dynasties and represent the history, politics, economy, science and technology, cultural arts, husbandry production, religious belief and daily customs from thousands of years ago.
Perceiving God: The Epistemology of Religious Experience is a 1991 book by William Alston, one of his chief works in the philosophy of religion.
Alston, combining his interests in epistemic justification and religious language, gives a detailed account of the epistemology of religious experience, and argues that experiential awareness of God makes an important contribution to the grounds of religious belief.
He argues that religious experiences which are taken by their subjects to be direct non-sensory experiences of God are perceptual in character because they involve a presentation or appearance to the subject of something that the subject identifies as God.
He defends the view that such mystical perception is a source of prima facie justified beliefs about divine manifestations by arguing for the practical rationality of engaging in a belief-forming practice that involves reliance on mystical perception.
Perceiving God has been praised by philosopher Alvin Plantinga.
R. (on the application of Williamson) v Secretary of State for Education and Employment; UKHL 15 [2005] 2 A.C. 246, was an unsuccessful challenge to the prohibition of school corporal punishment in the Education Act 1996 by the headmasters of private Christian schools in the United Kingdom.
The heads of a number of Christian private schools - Philip Williamson, Michael Bates, Pauline Bolton, Grahame Davies, David Greenwood, Marianne Hosey, Paul Hubbard, Philip Moon, Roy Sammons, Anthony Seaton, Matthew Walker and Colin Wilcock - wished to use corporal punishment as a disciplinary device in their schools.
The schools were Christian Fellowship School at Edge Hill, Liverpool, Bradford Christian School at Idle, Bradford, Cornerstone School at Epsom, Surrey, and King's School at Eastleigh, Hampshire.
They claimed that the prohibition of corporal punishment in the Education Act 1996 s.548 was a breach of their freedom of religion under Article 9 ECHR.
They failed in their claim in the Administrative Court (Elias J), in the Court of Appeal.
They tried again on appeal to the House of Lords.
They were represented by Paul Diamond and James Dingemans QC The House of Lords held unanimously that there was a big difference between freedom of religious belief and freedom to manifest that belief.
Any interference was deemed justified, "necessary in a democratic society... for the protection of rights and freedoms for others".
Real Bloomsbury is a 2010 local oral history book by Nicholas Murray, on the district of Bloomsbury, in the London Borough of Camden Murray walks around the historic and fascinating square mile of the Bloomsbury area among locals, students and tourists, alone or in the company of local characters.
Bloomsbury is an area 'crammed with history and with contemporary decision-making', the home of the influential left-wing Bloomsbury Group and Bloomsbury Publishing along with the British Museum, University College London and the Great Ormond Street Hospital.
Bloomsbury has been a home of intellectuals, agitators and also working-class and now British Bengali communities.
The book p is described as 'presenting Bloomsbury as it's never been portrayed before: intimate, contemporary, exploratory and occasionally downright strange.'
In The Independent William Parker described the book as ' amiably informative and well-illustrated...the ideal companion to any tour' and noted 'there has always been a tradition of radical political and religious belief in Bloomsbury' while the book was also previewed in the Camden New Journal and was listed as the best book about London of 2010
According to the 2001 census, which has the most reliable figures available, 74 percent of the population of Antigua and Barbuda is Christian.
The Anglican Church is the largest religious denomination, accounting for an estimated 26 percent of the population.
The Methodist, Moravian, and Roman Catholic churches account for less than 10 percent each.
The United Evangelical Association, an organization that includes most independent evangelical churches, claims an estimated 25 percent of the population, and Jehovah's Witnesses number more than 1,000 members.
The total number of non-Christians is small; they include an estimated 1,000 to 1,500 Rastafarians, more than 200 Muslims, nearly 200 Hindus, about 30 Jews, and approximately 50 members of the Baha'i Faith.
There are more than 4,000 atheists or persons who do not follow a particular religion.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints claims 161 members as of year-end 2007.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice.
The US government documented no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice in their 2007 religious freedom report, and prominent societal leaders took positive steps to promote religious freedom.
More than 93% of the population of Cape Verde is nominally Roman Catholic, according to an informal poll taken by local churches.
About 5% of the population is Protestant.
The largest Protestant denomination is the Church of the Nazarene.
Other groups include the Seventh-day Adventist Church, the Church of Jesus Christ of-day Saints (Mormons), the Assemblies of God, the Universal Church of the Kingdom of God, the New Apostolic Church and various other Pentecostal and evangelical groups.
There are small Bahá'í communities and a small Muslim community.
The number of atheists is estimated at less than 1 percent of the population.
There is no association between religious differences and ethnic or political affiliations; however, the Catholic hierarchy is sympathetic to the Movement for Democracy (MPD) party, which ruled the country from 1991 to 2001.
While many Catholics once were hostile toward the African Party for the Independence of Cape Verde (PAICV), which became the governing party in 2001, some have become supporters of the PAICV due to conflict within the MPD party and dissatisfaction over the latter's performance.
There are foreign missionary groups operating in the country.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice.
The US government received no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Religion in the Marshall Islands is as of 2009 dominated by major Christian faiths introduced by Western missionaries since around 1857.
Major religious groups in the Republic of the Marshall Islands are United Church of Christ (formerly Congregational) (51.5%), Assemblies of God (24.2%), Roman Catholic church (8.4%), The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons) (9.5%), Bukot Nan Jesus (also known as Assembly of God Part Two) (2.2%), Baptist (1.0%), Seventh-day Adventists (0.9%), Full Gospel (0.7%), Baha'i Faith (0.6%).
Persons without any religious affiliation account for a small percentage of the population.
The Jehovah's Witnesses are believed to have a few hundred practitioners.
There are fewer than 20 people of Jewish faith and fewer than 20 members of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community.
Foreign missionaries are present and operate freely.
Religious schools are operated by the Roman Catholic Church, United Church of Christ, Assemblies of God, Seventh-day Adventist Church, Bukot Non Jesus, and the Baptist Church.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice.
In 2007, the US government received no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
Approximately 92.0 percent of the population of Solomon Islands is affiliated with one of the following Christian churches: An estimated 5 percent of the population, consisting primarily of the Kwaio community on the island of Malaita, practice indigenous animistic religions.
Groups that together constitute less than 5 percent of the population include the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community and other Muslims, the Baha'i Faith, Jehovah's Witnesses, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), Unification Church, and indigenous churches that have broken away from the major Christian denominations.
There are believed to be members of other religious groups within the foreign community who were free to practice, but they are not known to proselytize or hold public religious ceremonies.
According to the most recent reports, there are approximately 350 Muslims.
Christianity was brought to the country in the 19th and early 20th centuries by missionaries representing several Western denominations.
Some foreign missionaries continue to work in the country.
Except for the Roman Catholic Church, whose clergy is approximately 45 percent foreign, the clergy of the established churches is nearly entirely indigenous.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice.
The US government received no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice in 2007.
Rangfarah is the name chosen for a revivalist movement of Tangsa traditional spirituality.
The intention is "to give an alternative form of religious belief to those who were neither following the Christian beliefs nor were following the traditional ways".
"Rangfrah" meaning "god" in the Longchang dialect was given a form very similar to that of the "Shiva" of the Hindu religion and a worshiping house called "Rangshom Him" was built to place the Rangfrah and make arrangement for the followers to gather and offer their prayers.
In the dialects of other Tangsa communities, the term for "god" takes variants such as Rangwa, Rangkhothak etc.
Traditionally, the Tangsas very rarely used to pray to god or practice any kind of religious rituals dedicated to the god.
But, they generally used to invoke spirits of various things either to receive their benevolent influences or to protect themselves from their malevolent activities.
The rituals were mostly invocations, offerings of some living things like, chicken etc., rice, rice-beer, eggs etc.
wrapped in some leaves and placed at some specified locations according to the ritual that is meant for.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to religion: Religion &ndash; organized collection of beliefs, cultural systems, and world views that relate humanity to an order of existence.
Many religions have narratives, symbols, and sacred histories that are intended to explain the meaning of life and/or to explain the origin of life or the Universe.
From their beliefs about the cosmos and human nature, people derive morality, ethics, religious laws or a preferred lifestyle.
According to some estimates, there are roughly 4,200 religions in the world.
List of New Age topics
Saleh bin Abdul-Aziz Al ash-Sheikh is a Saudi cleric who served as the minister of Islamic affairs, endowments, call and guidance of Saudi Arabia between 1996 and 2014, and from 2015 to the present.
He is a member of the Al ash-Sheikh, the influential Saudi religious family.
Saleh bin Abdul-Aziz Al ash-Sheikh is a member of a noted family of Saudi religious scholars, the Al ash-Sheikh.
He has been minister of Islamic affairs, endowments, call and guidance since 1996 and was appointed the first official mufti in 1954.
His term as minister of Islamic affairs, endowments, call and guidance ended on 8 December 2014 when Suleiman bin Abdullah Aba Al Khail replaced him in the post, but only for a short time.
He was re-appointed in February of 2015.
He is perceived to be a strict Wahhabi because his head is covered but without a black band, the iggal, holding it in place.
Komi mythology is the traditional mythology of the Komi people of northern Russia.
A duck egg gave birth to En and Omöl, the spirits of good and evil respectively.
En took the form of a swan, Omöl that of a grebe.
They rose from the bottom of the primordial ocean to create the world.
In Komi religious belief the human soul (лов, "lov") had a double (орт, "ort", or орд, "ord").
The ort is born with each human being and gives a premonition of death either to the person who is to die or to one of their family.
The land of the dead was usually thought to be far to the north of the living, beyond mountains, rivers and forests.
The Komi equivalent of the Styx (the river of the underworld in Greek mythology) was "Syr Yu" (Сыр Ю), "River of Pitch".
Dead souls were assigned various means of crossing the river, according to their sins in this world: an iron bridge, a shaky beam, a thin pole or a cobweb.
After this the dead had to climb a huge slippery mountain.
This was only possible if the person had led a good life and had strong fingernails.
Traditionally, the Komis kept their fingernail clippings so they could be buried with them for use in the afterlife.
The Komis had shamans and believed in sorcerers and witches.
The most notorious witch in Komi folklore is Yoma (or Yoma-Baba).
In fraternal orders, societies and service clubs, a side degree or appendent body is a social or enterntainment "club within the club".
It is considered a "side" because it exists outside the degree hierarchy of the standard organisation and members may or may not join at their discretion.
Note that female groups attached to side degrees are not necessarily considered side degrees in themselves.
Many of them evolved around the British and American fraternities in the 19th and 20th centuries.
Stevens pp.229, 284 On the latter page Stevens states that this side degree was "formerly" used by the Knights of Pythias</ref> This was a side degree conferred "mostly" to the Knights of Pythias.
The professed aim of the order was to "improved the condition of mankind".
It also claimed that in the Order there was no discrimination on the basis of political or religious belief, or of wealth.
Its ritual was discovered and published by the National Christian Association, as well as in Peter Rosens' The Catholic church and secret societies.
The head of a local lodge was called a Grand Chief Orient; other officers were the Grand Vice Orient, Grand Prophet (chaplain) and Grand Marshall.
A splinter group called the Ancient Order of the Sanhedrims broke from this in 1895 and offered a benefit to members of "some secret societies in good standing".
Michael Bergmann is an American analytic philosopher teaching in the department of philosophy at Purdue University.
His primary interests are epistemology and philosophy of religion.
In epistemology, he writes mostly on externalism and, in philosophy of religion, he mostly writes on the epistemology of religious belief and the problem of evil.
Bergmann received a BA and MA degree in philosophy from the University of Waterloo and, in 1997, a Ph.D. from the University of Notre Dame.
He has taught at Purdue University since 1997.
Bergmann is a Christian philosopher.
In his early work, Bergmann wrote about Alvin Plantinga's evolutionary argument against naturalism.
He raised objections inspired by Thomas Reid's epistemology.
In philosophy of religion, Bergmann, along with other philosophers, developed skeptical theism, a position which addresses the evidential argument from evil formulated by William L. Rowe.
With Michael Rea and Michael Murray, he edited the book Divine Evil?
The Moral Character of the God of Abraham (Oxford University Press, 2010).
In epistemology, Bergmann defends externalism.
Mandala ( ) is a 1981 South Korean film about Buddhist monks in Korea.
This is considered by many critics to be director Im Kwon-taek's breakthrough film as a cinematic artist.
The film follows the differing lives of two Buddhist monks in Korea.
By following their lives and their interaction throughout the film, Im creates a contemplation of the nature of individualism, religious belief and enlightenment.
A Review of Im Kwon-Taek: The Making of a Korean National Cinema at www.koreanfilm.org</ref>
A manifesto is a published verbal declaration of the intentions, motives, or views of the issuer, be it an individual, group, political party or government.
A manifesto usually accepts a previously published opinion or public consensus and/or promotes a new idea with prescriptive notions for carrying out changes the author believes should be made.
It often is political or artistic in nature, but may present an individual's life stance.
Manifestos relating to religious belief are generally referred to as creeds.
It is derived from the Italian word manifesto, itself derived from the Latin manifestum, meaning clear or conspicuous.
Its first recorded use in English is from 1620, in Nathaniel Brent's translation of Paolo Sarpi's History of the Council of Trent: "To this citation he made answer by a Manifesto" (p.&nbsp;102).
Similarly, "They were so farre surprised with his Manifesto, that they would never suffer it to be published" (p.&nbsp;103)
Malai Arayan (alternatively Malaiyarayan, the word Malai Arayan means 'Monarch of the Hills') is a member of a tribal community in parts of Kottayam, Idukki and Pattanamtitta districts of Kerala state, southern India.
They are listed (Central List No - 20)  as part of Scheduled Tribes by the Government of India.
Among the Scheduled Tribes, Malai Arayans out class all the other tribes in socio-economical and educational aspects.
When an evaluation in the educational and employment prospect is taken, it will be found that almost all the Government Servants and other employees are coming from this faction of Scheduled Tribes.
Some of the Malai Arayans turned their religious belief from their centuries-old "Mala Daivangal" (renegades and traditional Hindus following the hereditary regulations and customs are included in this group) to Christianity, especially to Church of South India.
Malai Arayans are opened to exploitation of their illiteracy and cultural uniqueness for centuries.Traditionally Malaarayans, have good moral values.
Malaarayans usually practice agriculture, but most of them lost their farm land due to exploitation.
Ancistors of malaarayas used to workship natural forces and their traditional gods include Malamurthi, Azhamalamurthi, Thalaparamala, Kaali and Lord Ayyappan.
Traditional art forms include Ivarkali, Koladikali.
Ivorkali tells the story of panchapandavas and is used to workship devi.
The art form used to be performed in temple premises during night time.
Invitation to Sociology: A Humanistic Perspective is a book on sociology by Dr. Peter L. Berger, published in 1963.
In Invitation to Sociology Berger sets out the intellectual parameters and calling of the scientific discipline of sociology.
Many of the themes presented in this book were later developed in his 1966 book, The Social Construction of Reality, coauthored with Thomas Luckmann.
In Invitation to Sociology, Berger addresses which types of questions sociologists may seek to answer (e.g., the consequences of religious belief) and those which they cannot address (e.g., the existence of God).
Berger also argues that the various uses for sociology (e.g., policy planning, political polling) does not reflect the actual nature of the science, and that the people who use the information provided by sociologists "[have] nothing to do with the character of the information itself."
Berger argues for sociology to emphasis and orientating itself towards its humanistic aspects.
According to Berger, Black pride is "building up a counter-formation of a black racism that is but a shadow of its white prototype."
Children of This Earth is a 1930 novel by Scottish writer Bruce Marshall.
John Glenuff is the son of a wealthy Scottish family with deep and powerful religious feelings.
He studies to become a minister and is assigned to a conservative Anglican church in London.
He is troubled by the sin and lack of religious belief he sees and dreams of bringing all to Christ.
A wealthy and beautiful young girl pursues him and he is distraught when he almost succumbs to her.
Walking home through Leicester Square afterwards he is propositioned by Dorothy, an attractive young prostitute.
On the spot he decides to marry her in order to “save her soul.” And, despite his superiors’ objections, he does so.
Church officials transfer him to an Anglican parish in Paris to minimize scandal, but his religious fervor and grandiose plans soon alienate the congregation.
His marriage also deteriorates as he finds Dorothy extremely resistant to his preaching.
As the novel ends, Glenuff believes that he has developed stigmata and thinks that these will finally enable him to convert the world, but it turns out that he is the only one who can see the signs.
Christian Ludwig Gerling (10 July 1788 &ndash; 15 January 1864) studied under Carl Friedrich Gauss, obtaining his doctorate in 1812 for a thesis entitled: Methodi proiectionis orthographicae usum ad calculos parallacticos facilitandos explicavit simulque eclipsin solarem die, at the University of Göttingen.
He is notable for his work on geodetics and in 1927 some 60 letters of correspondence between Gerling and Gauss on the topic were published.
He is also notable as the doctoral advisor of Julius Plücker.
Gerling, whose father was also called Christian Ludwig Gerling and was a pastor at the St. Jacobi church, was born in Hamburg and attended the Johanneum.
In 1817, he became professor of mathematics at the University of Marburg.
The Gardens of Light ( ) is a 1991 novel by the French-Lebanese writer Amin Maalouf.
It focuses on the parthian religious thinker Mani, founder of Manichaeism.
David Guy wrote in The New York Times: "The Gardens of Light has the feel of a 1950's Hollywood epic, in which men gesture boldly and deliver words that deserve to be immediately carved in stone.
... Maalouf's epic style and wooden characters, as rendered here in Dorothy S. Blair's functional translation from the French, are burdensome.
We follow Mani's actions, but we long for an imaginative journey into his inner life, some insight into how his liberal convictions were formed at a time when so much religious belief was marked by extreme factionalism and rigidity."
Cultural Co-operation (CC) is a London-based arts and education charity.
It was formed in 1987 in order to promote intercultural contact, dialogue and understanding.
It does this through a programme of not-for-profit public activities that encourage learning about and participation in the world’s diverse cultural heritage.
The programme comprises 5 activity strands: A Festival showcase (FS): the Music Village Festival, a free admission summer event that creates a safe and welcoming public “contact zone” for learning and about and celebrating world cultures.
An Artist Network (AN): this encourages cross-community creative collaborations between creative practitioners of diverse national and faith origin now living in London; it additionally provides network members with professional support to connect them and other excluded artists to one another and to the mainstream.
A year-round Education & Training Programme (E&T): this offers immersive learning in arts, heritage and citizenship skills in schools, museums & the workplace Dialogue & Debate (D&D): seminars and conferences to generate understanding and trust between people of different national descent an/or religious belief through structured engagement with complex intercultural and interfaith issues.
Policy & Consultancy (P&C): that provides professional advice to official bodies, mainstream organisations and community groups in the form of analysis, reflection and insight into our diverse origins, distinctive world views and common values.
DISPLAYTITLE A Trip Down Memory Lane is a 1965 experimental collage film by Arthur Lipsett, created by editing together images and sound clips from over fifty years of newsreel footage.
The film was intended as an audiovisual tour of the post-war technocracy.
In his notes for producer Donald Brittain about the film, Lipsett wrote that “as science grows, religious belief seems to have diminished...
The new machines (of every description) are now invested with spiritual qualities.
They have become ritualistic implements.” Lipsett envisioned his film as a kind of cinematic time capsule for future generations, and sub-titled the film accordingly, as "Additional Material for a Time-Capsule."
A Trip Down Memory Lane combines footage from a beauty contest, religious procession, failed airflight, automotive and science experiments, animal experimentation, skyscraper construction, military paraphernalia, John D. Rockefeller and scenes of leisure, Richard Nixon and scenes of war, blimps and hot air balloons, and a sword swallower.
To create the film, Lipsett travelled from Montreal to New York City to obtain stock footage in 35mm which he had reduced to 16mm.
He then drew new edge code on it by hand.
Finally, he had it blown up to 35mm for release.
Universelles Leben e.V.
v. Germany (application No.
29745/96) was a case decided by the European Commission of Human Rights in 1996.
Universelles Leben, the German branch of Universal Life, filed a request in German court for an interim injunction prohibiting the German Government from including a reference to the applicant association in a publication on "So-called youth sects and psycho-groups in the Federal Republic of Germany" until a final court's decision on prohibiting the reference.
The interim injunction was granted by the Cologne Administrative Court.
After a government appeal of the injunction, the North-Rhine Westphalia Administrative Court of Appeal dismissed UL's request.
It found that the documents produced by UL, in particular on the replacement of medical treatment by religious belief, showed a degree of danger for the general public justifying a reference to the applicant association in the envisaged publication including a warning about its activities.
The commission considered that a State [.. is entitled to convey, in an objective, but critical manner, information on religious communities and sects, if such information does not pursue aims of agitation or indoctrination endangering the freedom of religion and that the reference to the applicant association in the intended publication does not have any direct repercussions on the religious freedom of the association or its members.
Therefore it held that there was no interference with the applicant association's rights to freedom of religion under Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
The Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief was established in 1986 by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.
The United Nations General Assembly passed the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief in 1981.
Although not endowed with the force of international law, this resolution was the first international legal instrument devoted exclusively to the freedom of religion.
In furtherance of the goals of the 1981 resolution and in support the general evolution of the freedom of religion as a human right, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights established the "Special Rapporteur on Religion Intolerance."
In 2000 the Commission on Human Rights changed the mandate title of the position to "Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief", in order that the position's name may more accurately capture the need for the Special Rapporteur to protect individuals's right to change religion or abstain from religious belief.
The Independent Expert is appointed by the UN Human Rights Council.
The mandate holder has been invited to identify existing and emerging obstacles to the free exercise of the right to freedom of religion or belief, and present recommendations on methods by which such obstacles may be overcome.
Interfaith Alliance is an interfaith organization in the United States founded in 1994.
Its stated goal is to protect faith and freedom by respecting individual rights, protecting the boundaries between religion and government, and uniting diverse voices to challenge extremism and build common ground.
Interfaith Alliance has members from more than 75 faith traditions and belief systems, in addition to many persons who follow no religious tradition.
As of January 2015, the Executive Director of Interfaith Alliance is Rabbi Jack Moline.
Interfaith Alliance and its partner organization, Interfaith Alliance Foundation, work out of their main office in Washington, D.C..
The group has local affiliates around the United States.
Interfaith Alliance realizes the powerful role that religion plays in America, and it values the positive impact that religious belief can have on American politics.
However, Interfaith Alliance's concern is that religion and the United States government are becoming dangerously entangled.
Interfaith Alliance believes that religion is being manipulated as a tool to influence policy and advance political strategy.
Interfaith Alliance works to ensure the sanctity of religion and the integrity of politics.
The group also supports an end to discrimination based on sexual orientation.
International Islamic Propagation Center (IIPC) is an Islamic missionary organization based in Karachi, Pakistan.
It was established in 1987 by its present chairman, Mohammad Shaikh as a Da'wah organization with its main objectives to conduct research and study on the Qur’an and comparative religion, proselytism of Islam, support to converts and giving assistance to the destitute.
The IIPC's initial activities consisted of inviting the common people of Karachi to study the Qur’an independently.
With time, the center moved to a more spacious accommodation and the chairman started delivering lectures to larger audiences.
Along with its principal activities, IIPC also operates an IPTV channel, IIPC TV.
Mohammad Shaikh (born October 6, 1952) is a Pakistani Muslim public speaker, and the founding chairperson of the International Islamic Propagation Center.
He is known for advocating reform of religious belief and practice by reverting to the Qur’an as the only infallible authoritative text for Islam and for delivering public lectures on Qur’anic inflection.
His approach to teaching the Quran is solely based on the aid of its own passages.
This approach is in contrast with traditional scholarship which subjects the Qur’an at par, and at times below, numerous other texts in matters of interpretation and exegesis.
is a children's book which depicts a variety of non-traditional families, including interracial, single-parent, and families with gay and lesbian partners as parents.
It intentionally emphasizes the normalcy of different family arrangements.
The book was at the center of a controversy in the state of Massachusetts in the United States when a number of parents objected to their children being exposed to it in school, claiming that it was intended to promote a "homosexual agenda".
Parents David and Tonia Parker filed suit against the Lexington school district to have their children exempted from reading the book in class.
The Parkers were ultimately unsuccessful, with the 1st Circuit Court of Appeals finally dismissing their lawsuit, noting that "the mere fact that a child is exposed on occasion in public school to a concept offensive to a parent’s religious belief does not inhibit the parent from instructing the child differently".
The US Supreme Court declined to hear the case.
Enamorada (English: Enamored) is the 19th studio album by Mexican pop singer Yuri.
It was released in 2002, and sold more than 45,000.
Yuri comes back to the secular public view with this album under the supervision of Muxxic Latina.
With this album she tries to return to her time-worn Pop, ballad, and R&B roots, but without leaving her fanatical religious belief.
Her first single "Ya no vives en mí" ("You don't live in me anymore") was well received in radio stations, especially in Chile and Central America, however in Mexico cataclysmically failed in the charts due to little promotion from the label; Yuri left the label for Sony Music.
Tracks <small> [ ] </small>:
"A Forest Hymn" is an 1824 poem written by William Cullen Bryant, which has been called one of Bryant's best poems, and "one of the best nature poems of that age".
It was first published in Boston in the The United States Literary Gazette along with several other poems written by Bryant.
Said to have been only conceivable by someone familiar with the "thick foliage and tall trunks of [the] primeval forests" in Massachusetts, "A Forest Hymn" is said to have been Bryant's way of saying farewell to country life before moving to New York City in 1825, which came about during a period where he wrote a large amount of works.
It is reflective of Bryant's love of nature and religious belief, has been called a "picturesque poem", and Richard Henry Stoddard has said: At the pace of the wind "playing upon the leaves and the branches of the ancient woods, Eleanor O'Grady has suggested that the poem be read in a smooth and gliding manner, as done in Median Stress.
The poem has been published many times, including an 1860 edition with illustrations by John A. Hows.
John Muir's first article advocating forest protection, a February 5, 1876, editorial in the Sacramento Daily Record-Union, alludes to Bryant's first line in its title: "God's First Temples: How Shall We Preserve Our Forests".
Heaven worship is a Chinese religious belief that predates Taoism and Confucianism, but was later incorporated into both.
Shangdi is the supreme unknowable god of Chinese folk religion.
Over time, Shangdi became synonymous with Tian (天 lit.
The worship of Heaven is highly ritualistic and requires that the emperor hold official sacrifices and worship at an altar of Heaven, the most famous of which is the Temple of Heaven in Beijing.
Heaven worship is closely linked with ancestor veneration and polytheism, as the ancestors and the gods are seen as a medium between Heaven and man.
The Emperor of China, also known as the "Son of Heaven", derived the Mandate of Heaven, and thus his legitimacy as ruler, from his supposed ability to commune with Heaven on behalf of his nation.
Early Abrahamic missionaries saw similarities between Shangdi/Tian and the Abrahamic God, and therefore rendered "God" as "Shangdi" in Chinese.
Worship of Heaven in the southern suburb of the capital was initiated in 31 BCE and firmly established in the first century CE (Western Han).
This article lists the oldest extant freestanding buildings in Scotland.
In order to qualify for the list a structure must: This consciously excludes ruins of limited height, roads and statues.
Bridges may be included if they otherwise fulfill the above criteria.
Dates for many of the oldest structures have been arrived at by radiocarbon dating and should be considered approximate.
The main chronological list includes buildings that date from no later than 1199 AD.
Although the oldest building on the list is the Neolithic farmhouse at Knap of Howar, the earliest period is dominated by chambered cairns, numerous examples of which can be found from the 4th millennium BC through to the early Bronze Age.
Estimates of the number of broch sites throughout the country, which date from the Iron Age, range from just over 100 to over 500.
However, only a small percentage are sufficiently well preserved for them to be included here and some of those that could be remain undated.
As there are relatively few structures from the latter half of the first millennium AD and a significant number from the 12th century, the latter group is placed in a sub-list.
There are larger numbers of extant qualifying structures from 1200 onwards and separate lists for 13th-century castles and religious buildings are provided.
As the oldest buildings in many of the council areas in the more urbanised Central Belt date from after the 14th century a separate list showing oldest buildings by council area is provided.
There is also a supplementary list of qualifying structures for which no confirmed date of construction is available and a short listing of substantial prehistoric structures that are not buildings as defined above.
The following are amongst the oldest buildings in each council area of Scotland.
The following are very old buildings that meet the qualifying criteria but for which no reliable date of construction has emerged.
The following are very old human constructions that do not fit the above criteria for a building.
Montecchio is a comune (municipality) in the Province of Terni in the Italian region Umbria, located about 50&nbsp;km south of Perugia and about 30&nbsp;km northwest of Terni.
Montecchio borders the following municipalities: Avigliano Umbro, Baschi, Civitella d'Agliano, Guardea, Orvieto, Todi.
The production facilities of the Falesco winery are located there.
ImageSize = width:455 height:303 PlotArea = left:50 bottom:50 top:30 right:30 DateFormat = x.y Period = from:0 till:4000 TimeAxis = orientation:vertical AlignBars = justify ScaleMajor = gridcolor:darkgrey increment:1000 start:0 ScaleMinor = gridcolor:lightgrey increment:200 start:0 BackgroundColors = canvas:sfondo Among the noteworthy religious buildings in the city are:
Future for Religious Heritage (FRH) is a not-for-profit heritage organisation registered in Belgium, with members across Europe.
"Begun as a grass-roots movement in 2009, the Future for Religious Heritage took shape in 2011 as a network of groups from more than 30 countries, dedicated to finding ways to keep churches, synagogues and other religious buildings open, if not for services, then for other uses."
FRH has an office in Brussels.
Its members include the National Museum of Denmark, the University of Barcelona, the Archbichopric of Prague, Chorus Venezia, the Florentine Forum on Museums and Religion of the Lorenzo de' Medici school, Din l-Art Ħelwa, Museum Catharijneconvent, Departamento do Património Histórico e Artístico da Diocese de Beja, the Department for Cultural Heritage Conservation of the Church of Sweden, the University of Gothenburg, the University of Uppsala, the Churches Conservation Trust, the Diocece of London, English Heritage, Friends of Friendless Churches, the Historic Religious Buildings Alliance, Jewish Heritage UK, the National Churches Trust, Scotland's Churches Trust, and SPAB, among many others.
FRH organises international conferences on the topic of religious heritage conservation.
Previous topics include "Movable Religious Heritage" (Utrecht, 2013), "Extended Use of Religious Heritage Buildings" (Venice, 2012) and "A New European Forum for Historic Places of Worship" (Canterbury, 2010).
The next conference, entitled "Sustaining Europe's rural religious heritage" will take place in Halle, Germany in October 2014.
Jesse N. K. Mugambi (born 6 February 1947) is a Professor of Philosophy and Religious Studies at the University of Nairobi with professional training in Education; Communication Policy and Planning; Publishing; Ecology and Applied Ethics.
His academic specializations include Philosophy, Theology and Religious Studies.
He has been an alumnus of the University of Nairobi since 1971, which was when he joined the institution to pursue undergraduate and postgraduate studies .
Previously he had been a high school teacher and a college tutor.
He also studied at Westhill College of Education, Birmingham, UK, and conducted historical research at the CMS Archives in London (1969–70).
After graduation from the University of Nairobi, he served as Africa Theology Secretary for the World Student Christian Federation - WSCF (1974–76), and remained a Resource Person in various ecumenical organizations at local, national, regional, continental and global levels.
Within the World Council of Churches (WCC) he has served as Member of the Commission on Faith and Order (1975–83); Working Group on Church and Society (1983–94); Working Group on Climate Change (since 1994); Working Group on Inter-religious Dialogue and Cooperation (since 2012).
He joined the academic staff of the University of Nairobi in 1976, and rose through the ranks to full professorship in 1993.
He served as Registrar, Academic Affairs (1990–94); Associate Dean, Faculty of Arts (1990); Chairman, Department of Religious Studies (1986–90).
On Leave of Absence he was Visiting Mellon Distinguished Professor at Rice University, Houston, Texas (1990–91); Senior Consultant for Development and Research at the All Africa Conference of Churches (1994–97); Guest Professor at the University of Edinburgh, UK (1997); Guest Professor at Lund University, Sweden (1997); Guest Professor at the University of Copenhagen (1997 and 2009); Guest Professor at the University of Helsinki, Finland (1997); Visiting Professor at Emmanuel College, Toronto, Canada (1999); Visiting Professor at the University of South Africa, Pretoria (2000); Guest Professor at Vanderbilt University (2002); Guest Professor at the University of the Western Cape, South Africa (2003); Director of Starehe Boys Centre, Nairobi (2007-2008).
He has been an External Examiner in several universities and colleges, including Anna University (India); University of Cape Town (South Africa); Egerton University (Kenya); University of Ghana; University of Helsinki (Finland); Kenyatta University (Kenya); Makerere University (Uganda); Makumira University College (Tanzania); School of Mission and Theology (Stavanger, Norway); Moi University (Kenya); University of Natal (South Africa); University of South Africa, Pretoria.
On Quality Assurance he is a Resource Person for the Kenya Commission for University Education (CUE) and the South African National Research Foundation (NRF).
He is a Fellow of the Kenya National Academy of Sciences (FKNAS), and was conferred the National Honour of the Order of Elder of the Burning Spear (EBS) in 2010.
Early in 1990 he became widely acclaimed in Christian theological circles after he addressed the General Committee of the All Africa Conference of Churches (AACC) on 30 March at Nairobi, reflecting on "The Future of the Church and the Church of the Future in Africa.".
This event was a few weeks after Nelson Mandela had been released on 11 February 1990 and Namibia had attained national independence on 21 March of the same year.
In his Address, Mugambi suggested that African Christianity must shift theological gear from the paradigm of liberation, which emphasised the Exodus motif, to that of reconstruction, which emphasises the post-Exilic motif.
He later elaborated this insight in his book From Liberation to Reconstruction: African Christian Theology after the Cold War.
Professor Tinyiko Maluleke in his review of Mugambi's book commented that Mugambi is "a passionate and committed African Churchman, theologian and continental patriot of our times."
The material in this article is drawn from both library and fieldwork research in various contexts of Professor Mugambi's life—family, academic, ecclesiastical, ecumenical, professional.
His Doctoral Thesis, completed in 1984 at the University of Nairobi, was on Ludwig Wittgenstein, focusing on problems of meaning in discourse with reference to religion.
His professional training is in Education, Communication and University Management.
His honorary service has been mainly the Ecumenical Movement at the local, national, regional, continental and global levels.
Jesse Mugambi was born on 6 February 1947 at Kiangoci, Embu District in the Eastern Province of Kenya - East Africa.
His mother was Jemimah Koori and his father, Timothy Kanyua Mugambi, whom he describes as a person who was "ahead of his time".
War travel had taken him to Ceylon (Sri Lanka), Burma, and India between 1940 and 1946 – as a member of the Kings African Rifles (KAR) alongside the British soldiers during the Second World War (1939–1945).
Mugambi also spent much of his childhood with his paternal grandfather – Mugambi wa Nthigai –an elder statesman who arbitrated over disputes and provided advice and counsel to many people who came to consult him, and his paternal grandmother, Rhoda Wambiro.
Mugambi's maternal grandfather was Daniel Njerü wa Kanyenje, who had served in the Carrier Corps in the then Tanganyika (now Mainland Tanzania) during the First World War (1914–18).
He contributed considerably to Mugambi's mentorship.
On return from the war he had become a renowned blacksmith, making tools, implements and ornaments from alluvial iron.
Mugambi occasionally visited his foundry and enjoyed blowing the bellows to make iron ingots.
All this happened before he went to missionary Sunday School and later, to colonial schools.
Mugambi's father and mother were both committed Anglican Christians.
His father became a lay leader, preacher and evangelist.
Both sets of his grandparents were strict adherents of their African cultural and religious heritage.
While his parents nurtured him to become a strong Christian, his grandparents nurtured him to cherish the African Heritage.
This rich cultural education during his childhood explains Mugambi's great interest in the correlation of Gospel with Culture.
He is convinced that in matters of Gospel and culture the Christian faith stands or falls depending on the way in which Christian mission relates the Gospel to various cultures.
The apostolic church nearly collapsed over this issue, as documented in Acts Chapter 15 and Galatians Chapters 2 and 3.
The main question, which precipitated the crisis in mission during the apostolic generation, was whether Gentile converts should adopt Jewish culture as a precondition for admission into the Church.
St. Peter was of the conviction that Gentiles should be 'circumcised' into Judaism before they could be accepted into the church.
St. Paul, in contrast, was of the view that as far as conversion to the Christian faith was concerned, Jewish 'circumcision' and Mosaic 'Law' were of no advantage to anyone, Jew or Gentile, male or female, slave or free.
In Christ there is ‘ .
.
.
neither Jew nor Gentile, neither male nor female, neither slave nor free - all are one in Christ'.
The modern Christian missionary enterprise, and its precedents throughout church history, completely deviated from this Pauline teaching about the relationship between Gospel and Culture, and followed the Petrine doctrine of 'circumcision' as a precondition for conversion.
On this point Mugambi has written: "Christian Mission, according to St. Paul, is reconstructive, heralding a new society that is built on the foundations of the old one.
The qualification for this task of mission is 'renewal of mind' and refusal to be conformed to this world.
This Pauline instruction does not imply otherworldliness.
Rather, it emphasizes the necessity to avoid the risk of becoming so conformed to the norms of this world, as to be rendered incapable of transforming it.
The tragedy of the modern Christian missionary enterprise in Africa has been that it became so conformed to imperial norms that it was rendered incapable of supporting the struggles for liberation.
The same conformism might render contemporary Christianity incapable of facilitating social reconstruction.
Fortunately, there are, and have always been, visionary Christians who as individuals set the pace for future generations to emulate.
Such is the challenge of St. Paul to us today".
Thus Mugambi's early exposure to both Christianity and the African heritage inspired him to study and find conceptual models for reconciling the Gospel and African culture.
This concern motivated him to publish one of his major works: African Heritage and Contemporary Christianity (1989).
Mugambi attended three schools between grades One and Eight.
This was during the difficult years of the State of Emergency in Kenya.
Despite the hardship he faced as an Internally Displaced Person (IDP), he qualified for admission to Kangaru High School, 1962–1965, after passing with a Grade A at Kamama Intermediate School in 1961.
Mugambi's proficiency in English led to the publication of his first book containing an anthology of his own poetry— Carry it Home.
His love for literature was also illustrated in his book of literary critique titled 'Critiques of Christianity in African Literature'.
He has written more poetry and fiction than what is already published.
After High School, he enrolled at Machakos Teacher Training College (MTTC), Kenya, in 1966-67.
In 1968 he was admitted to Kenyatta College, Nairobi, to pursue further teacher training for a year, specializing in Religious Education and English at the High School level.
His first Research Paper was written in 1968 while at Kenyatta College and is titled "The Traditional Religion of the Embu People."
That Paper was widely circulated the following year, and in 1971, it was published in the Journal Dini na Mila of which Professor John S. Mbiti was the Editor at Makerere University, Uganda In 1969 on completion of the Teacher Training course Mugambi was posted by the Teachers Service Commission to teach Religion and English at Chania High School, Thika.
Later that year he entered Westhill College, Selly Oak, Birmingham, UK for further studies, where he spent one academic year.
He studied Contemporary Theology and read very widely.
With his meagre financial resources he began to build his home library by purchasing books weekly, many of which he still uses.
He spent the vacations conducting research in the Church Missionary Society (CMS) archives at 157 Waterloo Road, London.
The period he spent in the archives was pivotal for his future theological research.
On his return to Kenya in 1970 he was posted as Tutor and Lay Chaplain at the Kagumo Teacher Training College, Nyeri.
All these years Mugambi and Elizabeth maintained their friendship.
Jesse Mugambi's travels did not have a negative effect on their mature companionship.
They finally got married in July 1972 while he was studying at the University of Nairobi and Elizabeth was teaching in the city of Nairobi.
He and Elizabeth Nyathira Njuguna got married in July 1972 after more than six years of friendship.
Mugambi's undergraduate studies at the University of Nairobi began in 1971, when he was enrolled as a mature student.
The Founder-Chairman of the Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies was Bishop Stephen Neill, who had just retired from the University of Hamburg and relocated to Nairobi.
Mugambi was in the first cohort of students in the Department, which had been inaugurated in 1970.
His undergraduate courses included Education, Literature, History and Archaeology, Philosophy and Religious Studies.
In his major department he took all the courses that were available, in both Philosophy and Religious Studies.
As an undergraduate student he published another important widely acclaimed Paper, "The African Experience of God," which was widely acclaimed.
Professor Odera Oruka was the Editor of in the Journal Africa Thought and Practice, whose first editor was Professor Odera Oruka.
[20] the journal which published this Paper.
In June 1973 Mugambi was invited to attend an exploratory meeting between African and African-American theologians at Union Theological Seminary, New York, where he met the leading African and African-American scholars in theology on both sides of the Atlantic: The Africans included John S. Mbiti (Kenya); Desmond Tutu (South Africa); Kwesi Dickson (Ghana); Edward Fashole Luke (Sierra Leone) and Christian Gaba (Ghana).
The African-Americans included James H. Cone; Gayraud Wilmore; Charles Long; Herbert Brown; DeOrtis Roberts; George Thomas and Princeton Williams; John Bennett; Shelby Rooks.
This exposure was enlightening, from both the academic and the ecumenical perspectives.
He qualified for B.A.
honours with Education Option and won a University of Nairobi scholarship to study for the MA degree in Philosophy and Religious Studies, which he completed in 1977.
For two years after completing undergraduate studies (1974–76) Mugambi served as Theology Project Secretary for the World Student Christian Federation (WSCF), based in Nairobi, with occasional travels to various African countries.
He was at the same time working on his research for the M.A degree.
It was during this period that he appreciated the importance of contextual theological reflection, particularly with regard to the Theology of Liberation.
His third important Paper was titled "Liberation and Theology," which was published by the WSCF in 1974 at Geneva.
In September 1976 he joined the staff of the Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies, University of Nairobi, as a Tutorial Fellow.
Since 1970 he had been involved in the revision of the curriculum for "O Level" Christian Religious Education in Kenya, and in 1972 the Joint Religious Education Panel commissioned him to co-author a textbook for one of the Papers in the new syllabus.
The book was published in 1976 titled The African Religious Heritage.
His M.A.
Thesis was titled "Some Perspectives of Christianity in the Context of the Modern Missionary Enterprise in East Africa with Special Reference to Kenya".
In 1978 he embarked on his research for PhD, focusing on Ludwig Wittgenstein, which he completed in 1983.
The title of his doctoral Thesis was "Problems of Meaning in Discourse with Reference to Religion."
His main Supervisor was Professor Joseph Donders, with helpful advice from Professor Kwasi Wiredu who was then in the Department of Philosophy at the University of Ghana, Legon.
During this period he was invited to participate in an ecumenical research project to document the practice of ecumenism at the local level in eastern Africa.
This research was published in 1982 as Ecumenical Initiatives in Eastern Africa.
After completing his doctoral studies Mugambi took a Postgraduate Diploma course in 1985 on Communication Policy and Planning for Development, conducted in Nairobi by the Institute of Social Studies (ISS) from The Hague, Netherlands.
The course introduced him to the pros and cons of automation.
The course was directed by Professor Cees J. Hamelink, whose book Cultural Autonomy in Global Communications had just been published.
As part of field exposure his class was taken on a visit to a company in Nairobi which had acquired the dealership for Apple Computers.
The latest model was the Apple IIE.
Mugambi rose through all the academic ranks to become Assistant Lecturer, Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, Associate Professor and Full Professor in 1993.
He served as Chairman of his Department (1986–90); Associate Dean of the Faculty of Arts (1990); and University Registrar, Academic Division (1990–94).
He took a Sabbatical Leave to take up the position of Visiting Scholar at Christian Theological Seminary, Indianapolis (1982–83), hosted by Professor Richard D.N.
Dickinson, one of the most prolific authors in ecumenical studies, focusing on churches' participation in development.
In 1990-91 he took another sabbatical leave as Visiting Mellon Distinguished Professor in the Department of Religious Studies at Rice University, Houston, Texas.
His host was Professor Werner H. Kelber, the New Testament specialist on Orality in the Gospel of St. Mark.
It was during this sojourn that he wrote the drafts for the book later published as, From Liberation to Reconstruction.
In 1992 he attended a Senior University Management course at Banff in Canada, conducted by the University of Manitoba.
This course gave him professional insights into senior university management, including those having to do with policy and planning.
Between 1994 and 1997 he took a Leave of Absence to join the staff of the All Africa Conference of Churches (AACC) as Senior Consultant for Development and Research.
It was during that period that he facilitated the editing and publication of three books on the role of African churches in social transformation.
His book From Liberation to Reconstruction was published and launched in March, 1995 at Nairobi.
He delivered his Inaugural Professorial Lecture on 26 September 1996 titled, Religion and Social Construction of Reality.
After his return to the University of Nairobi he continued to provide leadership in Theology and Religious Studies, accepting short-term visiting professorships during vacations and offering guest lectures and Keynote addresses in various universities in Africa, Europe and North America.
These short-term appointments included stints at The University of Copenhagen, Denmark (1997); Emmanuel College, University of Toronto (1999) and the University of South Africa UNISA (2000).
In January 2007 he took Leave of Absence to serve as Director of Starehe Boys Centre, the Charity founded by Geoffrey Griffin in 1959, who died in 2005.
Mugambi became the second person to substantively hold this position after the death of the Founder, until January 2009 when he returned to the University on expiry of his Leave of Absence.
Mugambi became aware of Christians of denominations other than Anglicanism during the years when he and all the people of his district were Internally Displaced Persons under British Emergency Rule (1952–62).
The missionary partition of East Africa had previously ensured that missionary societies would operate in specific localities, producing clan-centred denominationalism.
In the concentration camps where Mugambi grew up it was impossible for Christians to practice their denominational brands of Christianity in isolation.
Within the concentration camps the displaced Kenyans disproved the prejudices and stereotypes, which missionaries had propagated through indoctrination under the pretext of evangelization.
Denominational affiliation became more a matter of choice than compulsion.
By the time he entered High school Mugambi had already become an open-minded with regard to Christian denominationalism.
Kangaru High School had students from most parts of the Republic of Kenya, who belonged to a wide range of Christian denominations.
National consciousness was taken for granted, and it was a joy to interact with Kenyans from districts other than one's own.
He was in the same nationalistic setting when Mugambi attended Machakos College, Kenyatta College and the University of Nairobi.
The Principal of Machakos College, Norman Kingston, was Baptist.
Some of the Tutors were Catholic, while others were indifferent to religious affiliation.
The religious and secular, and international, local and global outlooks were made part of Mugambi's experience throughout his childhood and schooling and training, through exposure with various expatriate personnel from Britain, Europe and North America.
Mugambi's serious attention to Ecumenical relations was facilitated by Ronald Dain, a British Anglican missionary who was in charge of religious education at Kenyatta College.
Dain taught a course on the History of the Ecumenical Movement which Mugambi found very interesting especially in the Kenyan context.
One of the core texts of the course was a book written by M.G.
Capon, Towards Unity in Kenya, about the history of ecumenical relations in Kenya.
Mugambi decided to explore the factors that hamper closer the cooperation between Christians from different various denominations.
This concern became part of his vocation.
The revision of the Religious Education curriculum in Kenya began in 1968, and Mugambi was one of the young theologians who was invited to join the ecumenical Team of educationists that was charged with the task.
The Kenya Episcopal Conference (Catholic) and the Christian Churches Educational Association (Protestant) were in charge of responsible for this project, which Mugambi served together with three other Kenyan colleagues and more than two dozen missionaries between 1970 and 1982.
It was interesting for Kenyan educationists (who were a minority) to interact with European and North American missionaries in that Team.
Whereas Kenyans could agree among themselves, the missionaries could not because of their entrenched denominational and nationalist interests.
The Kenyans in the team found themselves reconciling the missionaries.
Textbooks were jointly co-authored, and this approach compelled the educationists to seek common viewpoints for the sake of producing an ecumenically sound syllabus.
Mugambi continued to insist on the necessity for inclusion of the African Religious Heritage in the syllabus, on the ground that such an approach was pedagogically essential.
His earliest involvement in active ecumenism was in 1970, when he participated in the formation and launch of the Christian Student Council (the Kenyan SCM) and in the National Association of Religious Education Teachers (NARET).
These involvements brought him into acquaintance with other ecumenists.
Between 1974 and 1976 he widened his circle of ecumenical acquaintances in the contexts of the National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK), World Student Christian Federation WSCF, All Africa Conference of Churches (AACC) and the World Council of Churches (WCC).
He was the first Theology Project Secretary for the WSCF Africa Region.
Contextual theology was a new concept at that time, and the phrase "African Theology sounded strange.
Mugambi travelled widely across Tropical Africa, raising awareness of the necessity to theologize contextually.
It was at that time that he wrote his widely cited Paper on "Liberation and Theology", which was the basis for his theological work in the WSCF.
He together with Kofi Appiah-Kubi (then at the AACC) facilitated the arrangements for the inaugural meeting of the Ecumenical Association of Third World Theologians in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, in August 1976.
Sergio Torres dealt with fundraising and liaised with the participants from Latin America, USA and Asia.
The Conference Statement was published together with the Papers presented at that conference, which launched the Ecumenical Association of Third World Theologians (EATWOT).
He attended the Third Assembly of the AACC at Lusaka in May 1974, and became a member of the Local Arrangements Committee during preparations for the WCC Fifth Assembly at Nairobi in 1975.
In that context he contributed to the drafting of the WCC Policy Document Racism in Theology and Theology Against Racism.
He attended most of the periodic Assemblies of the AACC and the WCC thereafter.
Within the WCC he was invited to become a member of the Commission on Faith and Order (1975–84) under the leadership of Lukas Vischer.
The most significant work of the Commission at that time was completion of the Ecumenical Document on Baptism, Eucharist and Ministry (BEM) which was approved at the Lima Conference in January 1982.
Working Group on Church and Society (1984–94) under the leadership of Paul Abrecht.
He then became a member of the WCC Working Group on Climate Change since 1994 facilitated by Martin Robra and directed by David Hallman.
It is as a member of this Group that Mugambi attended, together with his other colleagues most of the UNFCCC annual Conferences of the Parties (COPs) since 1994.
This experience helped him to appreciate the ethical and religious dimension of the current Climate crisis.
Negotiations within the UN system have been driven by concerns for power and profit, with the rich and powerful nations dictating the terms.
The crisis, however, is essentially a matter of faith and ethics – our attitudes to nature, to other people and to future generations.
The modern ecumenical movement provides a forum for discussion and convergence on diverse perspectives from various, cultures, regions and nations.
Although convergence is sometimes not achieved, divergence is appreciated and recorded.
[ [49] opportunity a forum for critical voices to express themselves on matters which would otherwise be ignored in the formal bureaucratic organs of government.
Although their insights are often not heeded, they are disseminated.
In December 1974 before Mugambi commenced his postgraduate studies he met Professor Kwasi Wiredu, then at the University of Ghana, Legon, who had highly commended Mugambi's article titled "The African Experience of God" published in the Journal Africa Thought and Practice.
Their discussion encouraged Mugambi to further explore the philosophical aspects of both the Christian faith and the African cultural and religious heritage.
The articulation of one's faith requires some competence in the use of language.
Ludwig Wittgenstein had alluded to this insight in his Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus, and also in his Philosophical Investigations.
Verbal expression has two aspects - that which is stated, and that which is left unsaid.
Religion and Ethics often belong more to what is unsaid, what can best be shown.
In 1986 he met Georg Henrik von Wright during one of the latter's visit to Nairobi.
Mugambi gave him a copy of his doctoral thesis to read, which he later returned with insightful comments particularly with regard to Mugambi's interpretation of Ludwig Wittgenstein's view of Religion in theory and practice.
At the University of Nairobi Mugambi has taught Philosophy of Religion; Religion and Science; Comparative Study of Religions; Contemporary Religious Thought; Modern Trends in Christian Thought.
He has also taught African Christian Theology in Africa.
In 1987 he published his textbook on Philosophy of Religion which is still in use.
Later on he began teaching Phenomenology of Religion in the postgraduate syllabus.
In 1990 he edited and published a Textbook titled A Comparative Study of Religions.
Mugambi delivered his Professorial Inaugural Lecture on 26 September 1996, which was published as Religion and Social Construction of Reality.
The lecture consolidated Mugambi's philosophical approach to the study of religion.
Mugambi is Africa Co-Editor of Cambridge Dictionary of Christianity, in which he has contributed more than ten articles, mainly on hermeneutics.
His doctoral research on Ludwig Wittgenstein anchored him into hermeneutical thinking.
Wittgenstein observed that philosophy is a battle against the bewitchment of our intelligence by means of language.
Hermeneutics deals with principles of interpretation.
Within the context of Christian Theology, most doctrinal conflicts are the result of misunderstandings about biblical texts, historical claims and cultural assumptions.
In 1998 Mugambi published an essay titled "A Critique of Method in African Christian Theology", in which he observed that the time was overdue for African Christian theologians to engage in theological introspection, transcending ecclesiological description and theological anthropology.
He cited Bernard Lonergan as a possible role model in that approach.
Professor Knut Holter of the School of Theology in Stavanger, Norway facilitated in Nairobi a continental Conference of African Old Testament scholars, which Mugambi was invited to address.
The topic of his Paper was "Africa and the Old Testament", published in 2000.
The Society for New Testament Studies (SNTS) held its Annual Conference for 1999 at the University of Pretoria, South Africa.
Following that Conference some African Christian theologians were invited to present Papers on Hermeneutics at a meeting in Hammanskraal, near Pretoria.
Mugambi delivered the Keynote Address titled "Foundations for an African Approach to Biblical Hermeneutics", which was published in 2001.
Among the respondents to his address were Professor Hans-Dieter Betz (University of Chicago); Professor Peder Borgen (University of Trondheim) and Professor Vernon Robbins (Emory University).
The Report of this "Unique Conference" was written and presented by Professor Bernard Lategan (Stellenbosch University).
In 2004 Mugambi co-edited a book on New Testament Hermeneutics, to which he contributed a Chapter.
The following year a conference was held at Makerere University, which Mugambi was invited to address.
His Paper was "African Hermeneutics in a Global Context", published in 2007 as a Chapter in Interpreting Classical Religious Texts in Contemporary Africa, edited by Knut Holter.
There is much hermeneutical discourse in Mugambis book (co-authored with Michael R. Guy) titled Contextual Theology Across Cultures, published in 2009.
Mugambi is critical of Bultmann's project of "demythologisation", on the ground that hermeneutically, myth cannot be abstracted from the Gospel.
Any attempt at 'demythologization' results in new myths.
Instead of "demythologization", Mugambi urges for "remythologization."
He says of Bultmann, "in (his) attempt to satisfy scientific positivism by denouncing myth (he) ends up destroying the reality of religion as a pillar of culture."
For Mugambi, as with Jaspers, "myth is indispensable in cultural constructions of reality."
"J. N. K Mugambi, From Liberation to Reconstruction: 37.
To Mugambi, therefore, reconstruction in Africa has to be anchored in a) the formulation of new myths to replace the negative stereotypes used for the indoctrination of Africans under imperialism and missionary tutelage, and b) re-interpreting the old myths, for the survival of the African peoples.
He suggests that the myth of "a vanishing people must be replaced by the myth of a resurgent, or resilient people," while the myth of a "desperate people must be replaced by the myth of a people (who are) full of hope.
The myth of a hungry people must be replaced by the myth of a people capable of feeding themselves, and so on."
In 1989 Mugambi published his book The Biblical Basis for Evangelization.
This was in same year that he facilitated the editing and publication of a collection of essays on this theme – Christian Mission and Social Transformation.
This book was published in the context of the Mission Conference convened by the National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK) in commemoration of the seventieth anniversary of the Kikuyu Conference of 1918 which launched ecumenical cooperation in Kenya.
In 1996 he published an Article titled "African Churches in Social Transformation" in the Journal International Affairs at Columbia University, New York.
This article was followed by another titled "Vision of African Church in Mission", published in Missionalia, Journal of the Southern African Missiological Society.
In 1998 he published Missiological Research in the Context of Globalization in "Missiological Research in the Context of Globalization", in Swedish Missiological Themes, Uppsala.
He also published "A Fresh Look at Evangelism in Africa" in International Review of Mission, Geneva.
In the same year he published "Christian Mission and Social Transformation After the Cold War" in the Journal of Constructive Theology, Pietermaritzburg, South Africa.
[ [71] At the request of Bishop John V. Taylor in 2001 Mugambi wrote a critical Introduction published in the second edition of Taylor's book, The Primal Vision (SCM Press), also published in Nairobi as Christian Presence amid African Religion During a Conference organized by the World Council of Churches Sub-Unit of Church and Society in July 1986 at Potsdam, East Germany, Mugambi presented a Position Paper titled "God, Humanity and Nature in Ecumenical Discussion" cautioning against too sharp a distinction between these three notions in Christian doctrine.
In 1987 he published his book God, Humanity and Nature in Relation to Justice and Peace.
He intended this book to be a contribution to discussions within the World Council of Churches concerning the relationship between Religion and Culture on the one hand, and God and Nature on the other.
This publication was an echo of a public forum which Mugambi had organized as an undergraduate at the University of Nairobi in 1972, with Professor Stephen Neill as Patron, on the theme "Creation or Evolution: God or Darwin."
The theme of Ecology became one of his research interests, and in 2001 he facilitated the editing and publication of Christian Theology and Environmental Responsibility.
His contribution in that book was a Chapter highly critical of Carbon Dioxide Emissions Trading, which was being pushed for adoption within the Kyoto Protocol under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
In 1997 he published his reflections on "Some Lessons from a Century of Ecumenism in Africa."
In 2004 he co-authored with Gaim Kebreab a reference book titled Fresh Water to Eradicate Poverty, released in Oslo by Norwegian Church Aid.
The World Council of Churches has Observer status in the United Nations.
The Twelfth UNFCCC Conference of Parties was convened at Nairobi, Kenya, in December 2006.
Mugambi served as honorary Moderator of the Ecumenical Team as a member of the WCC Delegation.
The ecumenical viewpoint was widely publicized in the print and electronic media.
Mugambi read the WCC Statement at COP 12 in Nairobi.
In 2008 Mugambi was invited to participate in an ecumenical Consultation to discuss the theme "Peace on Earth and Peace with the Earth".
He presented a Paper titled "The Environmental Crisis from an African Perspective."
He also published an Article titled "The Environmental Crisis from a Christian Perspective."
During the Fifteenth UNFCCC Conference of Parties (COP 15) at Copenhagen in December 2009 Mugambi as a member of the WCC Delegation participated in a Seminar arranged by Dan Church Aid and hosted by the Faculty of Theology at Copenhagen University.
The Title of his presentation was "Adaptation to Climate Change in Tropical Africa."
Professor Mugambi emphasizes that our survival as human beings across generations will depend on how we manage our ecology – the flora and fauna in all the habitats where human beings have their abode.
The availability of fresh water determines the habitability of an environment.
Most of the land on the continent of Africa has arable soils, but freshwater is very unevenly distributed.
Fresh water can be obtained from rivers, fresh-water lakes and underground aquifers.
The most cost-effective source of fresh water is rainwater harvesting.
In his book Fresh Water to Eradicate Poverty he observes that Africa has the largest quantity of stable rainwater runoff, which may be harvested season after season, accumulating huge quantities to be used for agricultural, domestic and industrial applications.
Rainwater harvesting can also help to recharge the rivers, lakes and underground aquifers.
As a practicing ecologist, Professor Mugambi is a Trustee of the Kenya Rainwater Association and the Utooni Development organization.
He is also a Member of the Ecumenical Water Network and the World Council of Churches Working Group on Climate Change.
As a result of Global Warming there are unpredictable extremes every season in all regions, making survival difficult for communities that depend on seasonal rains for agriculture and staple food.
The droughts are longer and more severe.
The rains when they come are heavier and for shorter periods, making it difficult for crops to grow to maturity.
The regularity of the seasons can no longer be taken for granted.
Rehabilitation of local environments is a necessity rather than a luxury for all regions.
Jesse Mugambi has worked with communities in various African countries to promote awareness about the global ecological crisis.
Mugambi has taken keen interest in Applied Ethics.
In his doctoral research, Mugambi identified three "modes of thought and expression."
These are the empirical, stipulative and assessive modes.
Ethics, in his view, belongs to the assessive mode, conducted in the attitudinal domain.
His textbook on Philosophy of Religion was published in 1988, in which he included a section on Religion and Ethics.
His book on The African Heritage and Contemporary Christianity (published in 1989) also included a Chapter on Ethics.
In 1992 he co-edited an anthology of scholarly essays by African scholars, published under the title Moral and Ethical Issues in African Christianity.
His Chapter in that book was on "The Problems of Teaching Ethics in African Christianity."
In his Inaugural Lecture delivered in 1996 he also dealt with Ethics.
In 2001 he co-edited Christian Theology and Environmental Responsibility, whose content focused mainly on ecological ethics.
He became involved in the Programme for Ethics in Eastern Africa (PEEAK) in 2004.
Its focus was on Responsible Leadership in the Management of Public and Private Resources.
In 2005 he became one of the members of globethics.net founded by Christoph Stückelberger.
Together they co-edited Responsible Leadership: Global and Contextual Ethical Perspectives.
In January 2009 he facilitated the International Globethics Conference on "Care and Compassion.
Sharing Values across Cultures and Religions"at Lukenya, Kenya.
His views on Applied ethics are published in his co-authored book Contextual Theology Across Cultures .
In his essay titled "Prerequisites for an Effective Dialogue involving Religion and Culture", Jesse Mugambi concludes that “.
.
.religion, however defined, underlies the self-definition of communities in every nation, and tends to resurface whenever conflicts arise between communities even when the triggering factors have no direct bearing on religious institutions and teachings.
This prevalence of religion can be explained from a phenomenological perspective, since religion underlies cultural identity, even when and where the majority of citizens do not overtly assert their religious identity through ritual participation."
Mugambi suggests that inter-religious dialogue has broader implications than arguments about beliefs and practices within and between religions.
Believers of particular religions, denominations and sects are at the same time citizens of particular nations.
Thus religious identity and secular identity are practical necessity, irrespective of idealistic and utopian expectations.
During and after the European Reformation the rulers of specific nations interpreted religious non-conformism as subversion, while conformism facilitated the establishment of national churches that remain a legacy of European nationalism till the twenty-first century.
In his view, inter-religious dialogue can be one of the means to promote mutual understanding within and between religions, cultures and nations, provided that such dialogue presupposes mutual respect and mutual reciprocity.
According to Rosberg and Nottingham about 75,000 Kenyans served in the British military during the Second World War.
Some went to Asia (mainly Ceylon, India and Burma), including Mugambi's father.
The struggle for national sovereignty in India was towards its end as the Kenyan veterans were returning home.
Their conscription into the war had been justified with the argument that Britain was fighting against tyranny in order to preserve democracy and freedom, which these veterans and the people they left at home did not enjoy.
Upon their return, much more exposed and more self-confident than the peers who had not gone to war, these veterans led the campaign for national independence.
The campaign was peaceful at the beginning, but the British administrators and settlers were adamant that Kenya would remain British for ever.
The veterans found no justification for colonial domination with its attendant alienation of ancestral lands by British settlers, economic exploitation, forced labour, taxation without representation, restriction of movement in their own country, racial segregation, denial of access to basic social services including schooling and medical care.
The British missionaries, settlers, administrators and entrepreneurs enjoyed full imperial citizenship, while Kenyans remained imperial subjects in their motherland.
Mugambi started schooling as an Internally Displaced Person (IDP) in a concentration camp.
Collective punishment was the fate of all the people of Central Kenya, young and old, men and women, disabled and able-bodied, healthy and sick, guilty and innocent.
They were all locked up in concentration camps under strict curfew orders the cost of breach of which was death.
The experience was traumatic, as described by Caroline Elkins, David Anderson and others.
Despite all odds, Mugambi managed to proceed with school work and to pass all his examinations without having to repeat any year.
His articulation of Liberation Theology in later years was anchored in his personal experience of imperial domination and colonial oppression.
In 1989 he published a book containing his theological reflections under the title African Christian Theology: An Introduction.
Nelson Mandela in 1953 had aptly expressed the plight of Kenyans and the responsibility of Britain for their suffering, which he related with the situation in South Africa at the time: The massacre of the Kenyan people by Britain has aroused worldwide indignation and protest.
Children are being burnt alive; women are raped, tortured, whipped and boiling water poured on their breasts to force confessions from them that Jomo Kenyatta had administered the Mau Mau oath to them.
Men are being castrated and shot dead.
In the Kikuyu country, the population has been completely wiped out in some villages .
.
.
We are prisoners in our own country because we dared to raise our voices against those horrible atrocities and because we expressed our solidarity with the cause of the Kenyan people.
You can see that there is no easy walk to freedom anywhere, and many of us will have to pass through the valley of the shadow of death again and again before we reach the mountaintops of our desires.
In his 1974 essay on Liberation and Salvation Mugambi had clarified that within the African context of the 1960s and 1970s liberation (from oppression, exploitation and racial prejudice) was the main preoccupation for al responsible leaders.
He restated this definitive view in his book African Christian Theology: A Definition.
The following excerpt is illustrative: That the fundamental concern of African Christian theology has been liberation-salvation has been manifested in the activities of many African Christians and the growth of more than six thousand "Independent" churches in the continent of Africa.
Most African Christians have not felt it necessary to theorize about Christian Theology, because to them religious faith is practical living, expressed most effectively through experience, not through words.
The time has come when it is necessary to analyze the premises of African Christian experience and study it in relation to that of peoples in other parts of the world.
This systematic analysis and study, however, will be realistic and relevant as African Christian theology if Africans themselves will be the analysts and students of their own experience .
.
.
What is important to point out in this context is that while liberation both as a concept and as a historical struggle in Africa today takes on different emphasis in different parts of Africa, it must be the overarching goal – the historical project— out of which and for which an African Christian theology must emerge.
One of the most widely quoted sentences from Mugambi's essay on liberation is the following: In the African context and in the Bible salvation, as a theological concept, cannot be complete without liberation, as a socio-political concept.
Thus Jesus, proclaiming his mission, quoted from the book of Isaiah to indicate the concreteness and relevance of his concern .
.
.
Another widely quoted sentence is: Liberation is the objective task of contemporary African Theology.
It is not just one of the issues, but rather, all issues are aimed at liberating Africans from all forces that hinder them from living fully as human beings.
In Mugambi's scholarly work liberation precedes reconstruction in African Christian Theological reflection.
He has lived with both challenges throughout his life.
My first Paper on "Liberation and Theology" was written in 1973 and published in Geneva in June 1974.
Such authors as James Cone, Desmond Tutu, Kwesi Dickson and others quoted it severally.
A careful and critical study of the Exodus narrative raises serious questions about the beginning and the end of the exodus process.
Too often scholars have focused on the process of liberation from Pharaoh's oppression to the freedom in Canaan.
However, the Exodus narrative does not end with the invasion, siege, conquest and eventual occupation of Canaan.
The narrative continues with the former slaves becoming invaders and oppressors themselves.
They then adopt the norms and values of the people they conquered.
They wanted to have a king, despite advice against that wish by Samuel (I Samuel 8).
Saul, the first King, became a despot and they had to contend with a new form of oppression.
There is great difference between oppression by Pharaoh and oppression by Saul.
We find the same historical drama repeated in the New Testament.
There is contrast between oppression by Caesar, and oppression by Herod.
The rhetoric of liberation, especially in the 1970s and 1980s, focused on the former kind of oppression.
He goes on to emphasize: My earliest paper on Reconstruction was written in February 1990, shortly after the release of Nelson Mandela, and delivered to the AACC General Committee meeting on 30 March 1990.
Reconstruction focuses on the problems that nations and cultures must deal with after foreign oppression has taken a back seat.
In the 1970s I was in the forefront of the struggles for liberation in Africa.
But after two decades of that line of thought I discovered that it is essential to move beyond the rhetoric of liberation.
Liberation tends to be focused on the past.
Reconstruction is focused on the future.
The Exile Narratives provide another paradigm on the basis of which oppressed people can find encouragement.
Ezra-Nehemiah provides a paradigm rather different from that of the Exodus.
There is a great contrast between the leadership of Moses and Joshua in the Exodus narrative, and that of Ezra and Nehemiah in the Exile Narrative.
The Leadership of John the Baptist and Jesus may also be contrasted with that of Caiaphas and Herod in the New Testament.
We can also contrast the leadership of St. Peter and St Paul.
Studied in this way, the theme of Reconstruction stands high on a pedestal, focusing on the constructive future rather than on the destructive past.
Throughout his studies and in his research and writing Mugambi has interacted with a wide range of scholars from the North Atlantic, Asia and Latin America.
Mugambi resonates with Karl Jaspers' positive appraisal of myth in the conceptualization of world-views.
A myth tells a story and expresses intuitive insights, rather than universal concepts.
Thus Mugambi proposes that, "a society which is incapable of making its own myths and re-interpreting its old ones, becomes extinct."
In view of this insight, Mugambi defines the vision of the theology of reconstruction, in Africa, as a project of ".
.
.re-mythologization, in which the theologian thus engaged, discerns new symbols and new metaphors in which to recast the central Message of the Gospel."
Mugambi, joins other scholars in African Christian Theology, endeavouring to authentically relate Christianity with the African cultural and religious heritage with appreciation of both the Gospel and the wisdom bequeathed from generation to generation through oral tradition, cherished customs, rituals and symbols.
The uniqueness of Mugambi's thinking is in the persistence with which he pursues the "African agenda."
It appears that Mugambi's concern for Pan-African identity has support within diplomatic circles.
Swahili, an African language that is lingua franca in eastern and central Africa, has become one of the official languages of the African Union.
Microsoft Word is now available in Swahili.
The Swahili version of Wikipedia has also been launched.
a Even though he does not treat Africa as a single geo-cultural context of theology, he nevertheless creates in his readers an impression that African concerns are broadly the same – which is largely correct.
He is particularly appealing because he strictly and consistently avoids any attempt at parochial, national and regional introversion, opting for an approach that keeps in full view the entire continent of Africa with all its homogeneity and heterogeneity.
Despite the risk of appearing too general in his books, Mugambi avoids using such particularistic titles as "South African Christianity," "Kenyan Christianity," "Africa North (or South) of Limpopo," "East African Christianity", etc.
Rather, he is concerned with the Africans – both in the African continent and in the Diaspora.
While Mugambi acknowledges that theological articulation is strictly contextual and situational, all his works take "Africa" as the "Context" rather than the artificial territorial identities that are the result of the Partition of Africa at the Berlin Conference of 1884-85.
The titles of his books illustrate this point, portraying him as a Pan-Africanist scholar and thinker: These works include: African Christian Theology: An introduction (1989), The Biblical Basis for Evangelisation: Theological Reflections Based on an African Experience (1989), African Heritage and Contemporary Christianity (1989), Critiques of Christianity in African Literature, From Liberation to Reconstruction: Africa after the Cold War, Christian Theology and Social Reconstruction.
Mugambi's book, From Liberation to Reconstruction assesses events that had an impact on Africa as a whole.
These events include the end of the Cold War (1989), which divided African countries between those who were pro-West versus the pro-East - thereby causing unnecessary tensions among some neighbouring African countries.
Other events include the release of Nelson Rholihlahla Mandela on 11 February 1990 after serving in prison for 27 years on Robben Island.
For Mugambi, Mandela is not only the longest-serving political prisoner; he is also the most prominent symbol of the Exodus metaphor in African Christian Theology.
It is disgusting and scandalous that the so-called 'civilised' world would allow a leader to languish in prison for twenty-seven years, and to watch passively for decades in the name of 'non-violence,’ the massacre and incarceration of thousands of South Africans, just for demanding the abolition of apartheid….
The end of the Cold War has highlighted this insight more than ever before, all over the world.
(Other) Examples include Eritrea, Palestine, Croatia, Serbia, Estonia, Latvia and such others.
In his post-Cold-War theological discourses, which can also be regarded as his post- liberation works, Mugambi suggests that the Africa of the 21st century will have to pre-occupy itself with the agenda of reconstruction as the new priority for Africa.
The text of Ezra-Nehemiah, unlike that of the Exodus, has to be the main text in the explication of African theological discourses in the 21st century.
This text will motivate the people of Africa to rebuild their continent from all sorts of ruins.
Reconstruction is the new priority for African nations in the 1990s (and beyond).
The churches and their theologians will need to respond to this new priority in relevant fashion, to facilitate this process of reconstruction.
The process will require considerable efforts of reconciliation and confidence-building.
It will also require re-orientation and retraining.
While acknowledging that Mugambi has "correctly observed that an epiphany of a new scenario has emerged, ushered in by the demise of three horrendous systems of oppression; namely institutionalised racism, brutal colonialism and the cold war tutelage," Ukachukwu Chris Manus considers Mugambi as having failed to recognise the central figure in the New Testament, "Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ himself as the Master Reconstructor of both the spiritual and the social well-being of the bnaiya Israel, the simple folk of his day in first century Palestine."
Manus goes on to argue that the term "reconstruction" makes a deep impression on him as a "meta-language" that challenges African religiosity to discern and promote new insights that can inspire a new movement that would help to galvanise Africans in the continent like those in the Diaspora to struggle and regain their integrity.
For Manus, therefore, the goal of reconstruction ought to be pursued in order to re-capture Africa's self-esteem, dignity and integrity, "in the context of new Information and Communication Technology."
Others have offered perspectives on Mugambi's views on liberation and reconstruction.
In attempting a definition, the late Hannah Wangeci Kinoti explained that the idea of reconstruction assumes that there is a framework which was previously there.
She went on to say that "a cluster of words associated with the verb reconstruct should quicken our vision of asking the Church in African to rise up and do more, purposefully and decisively."
She suggested that the concept of reconstruction implies a process of "review and then move" - to create something more suitable to the prevailing environment.
Other terms can be invoked: rebuild, reassemble, re-establish, recreate, reform, renovate, regenerate, remake, remodel, restore, or re-organise.
Reconstruction can also be compared with such terms as rethink, re-examine, re-do, or rebirth (cf.
Nicodemus in John 3).
Kinoti attempts to explain the urgency of reconstruction in the Africa of the 21st century when she says: We may be inspired by the Biblical narrative of Nehemiah's reconstruction of the wall of Jerusalem.
We may be motivated by the urgent need to pick up pieces of our individual lives.
We may be desirous to restore the image of the corporate life of our communities as we visualize that image to be.
Some may even be literally in the middle of reconstructing their houses recently or currently burnt down by arsonists for political reasons.
Whatever our individual circumstances here and now in Africa, the cry is…restore!"
In arguing that the cry for the modern day Africa is reconstruction, Kinoti, like Mugambi, was probably drawing a comparison between the pre-Cold War Africa and the post-Cold War Africa.
As a result, she discovered that there is an open possibility of not only doing a theology of reconstruction but more importantly to reconstruct the entire continent, for now and for the future of its people.
Indeed, as Stein Villumstad wonders: "Do we see major conceptual and fundamental dynamics in current Africa that indicate a shift into a new era?"
The main watershed was the end of colonialism.
The next major shift started with the downfall of Communist Soviet Union and the collapse of the bipolar strategic politics in Africa.
The second shift facilitated the end of Apartheid and the wars in Mozambique and Angola.
Villumstad's concerns agree with Moiseraele Prince Dibeela when he says: Post-Cold War Africa has seen steady democratisation, with the continent generally embracing multi-party political systems.
Prior to that, Africa was characterized by military dictatorships, life presidents, one-party systems, coup d'états and assassinations of political leaders, corruption, ravaged economies and wars.
The fall of the century-long ideological struggle between the West and the East coincidentally ended the 'new scramble for Africa.'
Dibeela goes on to say that: During the intensity of the cold war in the 1960s and 1970s the main victim was the continent of Africa as the then Soviet Union and Western countries scrambled for the domination of Africa over and against each other.
Consequently, some of the longest wars that raged in Africa were fuelled by the ideological polarity that was at the heart of the cold war.
Often a so-called communist rebel would be sponsored by an overseas communist government to fight against a capitalist government sponsored by a Western government, or the other way round.
Countries like Angola, Mozambique, South Africa, Democratic Republic of Congo had political conflicts that went into decades, because of this stranglehold over Africa.
However, since the demise of the Soviet Union interest in Africa changed, at least from that of political control.
Meanwhile many progressive forces have pushed for political change across many African countries, and the climax of this has been the democratization of South Africa in 1994.
It is my contention that what stood on the way of Africa's political and economic freedom was the interface of external forces that had no interest in the development of the continent.
Much of the damage to our economies and resources took place during the successive periods of formal and informal colonization.
However, the demise of the cold war opened doors for the possibility of reconstruction.
Mugambi's works, in general, express an exemplary African sense of community.
Instead of the Cartesian, "I think, therefore, I exist" (cogito ergo sum), he builds on the African existential philosophical assertion, cognatus sum, ergo sumus, meaning I am related, therefore we are.
His approach correlates with Mbiti's summary of the African world-view: "I am, because we are; and since we are, therefore I am."
The Akan of Ghana would say, "I belong by blood relationship; therefore I am."
Mugambi's work is very attractive especially when we keep in view the consistency with which he has propounded his conviction that despite Africa's woes, Africa is "not yet dead" – and Africa "will not die."
He rejects the conventional wisdom articulated in the North Atlantic media that seems to suggest "Africa is doomed to annihilation."
He sees "no good reason to suggest that the failures of the past will prevail in the future."
He explicitly builds on this theme of "hope for Africa" when he writes: We dare affirm that since the God we worship is the creator and the director of all human history, tomorrow need not be like yesterday.
In God's plan, there is nothing special about being powerful or being powerless.
The most powerful can lose their power, and the powerless can be empowered by God's will.
In most of his published poetry, Mugambi further builds on this theme of "hope for Africa."
An illustration of this is his poem, "Epitaph to Africa, my child," where he writes: You are not dead yet<br /> My child, so do not be alarmed<br /> You have a long life still to death<br /> My child, so do not ask me now for your grave<br /> But you need not be disillusioned by your health<br /> My child, for every morning has an evening after it;<br /> Every streamlet has a source and a mouth,<br /> And every story a beginning and an end,<br /> So here I bestow blessings upon you child,<br /> For you to keep through all your wrath or mirth;<br /> May you survive to eternity,<br /> And your grave never be found on earth.< <br /> And for Africa you shall live<br /> Till eternity.
Kä Mana, the francophone Africanist Christian theologian, introduces his analysis of the ethical dimensions of the human crisis in Africa in an alarming way.
He proposes that only a radical reconstruction of African approaches to religious and socio-political realities would heal them from their major shortcomings.
Unlike Mugambi who considers the African cultural and religious heritage as the foundation upon which Africa can build new political and economic systems, Kä Mana presents the past African cultural values and traditions as a "decaying reality" or as "disintegrating reality."
He cautions that any attempt at avoiding Africa's present problems by going back to its ancient times is a new type of estrangement, which to him, is equivalent to surrendering ourselves to "the dictatorship of the past."
In view of Kä Mana's caution and in considering Mugambi's insistence on hope for Africa, how can Kä Mana's pessimism and Mugambi's optimism be reconciled?
What is the basis for Mugambi's hope?
What encourages him to think that African Christianity propel Africans to future prosperity?
Why does he link the idea of "hope" with the notion of "social reconstruction"?
Mugambi takes cognizance of various cases that render Africa to appear as a hopeless continent.
Africa today is portrayed in all the mass communication media in the whole world as a continent, which is in deep crises, crises from which we are told, it cannot recover.
It is faced with a food deficit; it is the hungriest continent in the world.
It is faced with a debt crisis; next to South America it is the most indebted continent.
It has the highest level of illiteracy in the world and half of the world's refugees are Africans.
This acknowledgment in no way negates hope.
Mugambi, in his post-Cold War works, suggests that the way to realise this hope is by "applying our ethics."
He calls on the people of Africa to reconstruct their social consciousness and challenges everyone to think again about this beautiful continent – Africa – that God gave us!
Since human beings are the creators of culture, they are "capable of working in the present to ensure that the future will not be like yesterday."
One of the challenges facing African Christian theology today is how to think positively about Africa.
Old ideas about Africa have failed the continent and nowadays these ideas ought to be deconstructed.
The project of "deconstructing" negative views about Africa was already under way as early as 1988 when Valentin Y. Mudimbe argued that the idea of Africa and the African was invented by the "colonial library" to serve as "the other" of the West and the Westerner.
He further contends that Africa, which is "reified in the colonial library," needs to be thought of anew.
Kä Mana expresses a similar concern when in his thought-provoking work he calls for "a conceptual lift-off" (un décollage conceptuel), which he sees as the only way to get Africa out of the miasma that its diverse crisis provokes.
Likewise, Mabiala Justin-Robert Kenzo from the Democratic Republic of Congo, echoes Mudimbe's challenge of "rethinking Africa" afresh.
He suggests that what is needed is "a new kind of thinking capable of mobilizing enough creative energy to fuel the reconstruction of Africa."
Thus Mugambi's call for reconstructive thinking about Africa has parallels in both Anglophone and Francophone African scholarship.
Mugambi is critical of the idea that the Christianity's demographic centre of gravity has shifted to Africa – an idea that is highly publicized especially by Kwame Bediako in his works.
Mugambi contends that the apparent numerical growth of African Christians is not necessarily positive, at a time when there are only a few books authored and published by African Christian theologians.
He notes that a significant number of the few books already authored by African theologians are published in the North Atlantic, making them largely inaccessible and too expensive for African Christians.
He observes that even the most outspoken advocates of "indigenisation" and "inculturation" have been foreign missionaries to Africa – and not African Christians themselves!
The Gospel becomes "rooted" when "the converts live in it in their own lives with full appreciation of their cultural and religious heritage" and not when they theorize about it.
Although there has been rejoicing in some quarters that Christianity is rapidly spreading in Africa, it is important .
.
.to ask ourselves what brands of Christianity are being propagated on this continent's rural and urban areas.
If they are brands that prevent Africans from managing their present and future, then Christianity will be judged as very bad irrespective of what missionaries think of themselves and their mission.
If, on the other hand, Christianity helps Africans to stand (against) the natural, social, economic and political forces that continue to dehumanise them, and if it facilitates their total liberation, then the Christian missionary enterprise of the future will be an improvement on the failures of the past.
The success or failure of the Christian missionary enterprise ought to be assessed on the basis of this self-criticism.
Mugambi further cautions that "it is important to note that north of the 10-degree latitude Africa is predominantly Muslim.
But that does not make northern Africa any less African!
The East African coast is predominantly Muslim, but it is not any less African."
Thus he is critical of the temptation to portray Africa as a "predominantly Christian continent" without appreciating that there are parts that are predominantly Muslim, especially north of the 10-degree Latitude north of the Equator.
Increasingly, there will also be sectors of the African population that will take on a secularist outlook especially in urban centres.
This social reality, he contends, "should humble those of us who view the numerical strength of Christianity triumphantly."
For in view of the secularisation of Christianity that is facilitated especially by the forces of globalisation "we do not know how long this numerical expansion will last."
Chukwudum B. Okolo also appears to be critical of the idea of a shift in the centre of gravity of the Christian faith to Africa when he contends that despite the high statistics associated with seminarians in Africa, the important statistic is not how many indigenous seminaries and priests Africa produces every year, but the kind of education and training given to them.
Quality not quantity becomes decisive in realizing the main objectives of African theology.
…It is important that those who educate and train African seminarians plan the curriculum in philosophy and theology with the background of the African situation and experience in mind.
The onesided training in Western philosophy and theology is grossly inadequate.
In view of the caution by Okolo and Mugambi, it is difficult to claim firmly that the centre of Christian gravity has clearly shifted to Africa, because "African Christianity" may not yet be so "authentic" as to guarantee its sustainability beyond the 21st century.
This caution, however, points to the ways and means by which African Christianity may become so rooted as to re-evangelize the post-Christian nations which produced the modern missionary enterprise in the 19th and 20th centuries.
Mugambi's Reconstruction Theology has such an end as its strategic goal.
In his contribution towards this goal, Mugambi has encouraged younger African scholars to conduct research and publish within Africa, so that their works can become more accessible and affordable for use as textbooks and for general reading by both clergy and laity.
2012 Theologies of Liberation and Reconstruction: Essays in Honour of Professor Jesse N.K.
Mugambi, edited by Isaac T. Mwase and Eunice K. Kamaara, Nairobi: Acton.
2003 Christian Theology and Social Reconstruction, Nairobi: Acton 2002 Christianity and African Culture, Nairobi: Acton.
(New edition of African Heritage and Contemporary Christianity).
1996 Religion and Social Construction of Reality, Nairobi University Press 1995 From Liberation to Reconstruction,: African Christian Theology after the Cold War, Nairobi: East African Educational Publishers 1992 Critiques of Christianity in African Literature, Nairobi: Heinemann 1989 African Heritage and Contemporary Christianity (Nairobi: Longman 1989 The Biblical Basis for Evangelization: Theological Reflections Based on an African Experience (Nairobi: Oxford University Press, 1989 African Christian Theology: An Introduction (Nairobi: Heinemann, 1988 Philosophy of Religion: A Text Book, University of Nairobi 1987 God, Humanity and Nature in Relation to Justice and Peace, Geneva: WCC.
1974 Carry it Home, Nairobi: EA Literature Bureau (Poetry).
2009 Jesse N.K.
Mugambi and Michael R. Guy, Conxtextual Theology Across Cultures, Nairobi: Acton.
2004 Fresh Water to Eradicate Poverty, Norwegian Church Aid, (co-author with Gaim Kebreab.
1989 Jesse N.K.
Mugambi, et al., The Rational Path, Nairobi: Standard Textbooks and Graphics, 1986 Jesse N.K.
Mugambi et al., Christian Religious Education, Book I (Nairobi: Longman.
1982 Jesse N.K.
Mugambi et al., Ecumenical Initiatives in Eastern Africa, Nairobi: AACC/AMECEA, 1976 Jesse N.K.
Mugambi et al., The African Religious Heritage, Nairobi: Oxford University Press.
1997 The Church and Reconstruction of Africa, Nairobi: AACC 1997 The Church and the Future of Africa, Nairobi: AACC 1997 Democracy and Development in Africa, Nairobi: AACC 1992 A Church Come of Age, Nairobi: Acton 1989 Christian Mission and Social Transformation, Nairobi: NCCK 1989 A Comparative Study of Religions, Nairob University Press 2012 Applied Ethics in Religion and Culture: Contextual and Global Challenges.
Nairobi: Acton (with David W. Lutz) 2010 Cambridge Dictionary of Christianity (Africa Editor).
General Editor: Prof. Daniel Patte, Vanderbilt University.
2008 Responsible Leadership: Global and Contextual Ethical Perspectives, Nairobi and Geneva: Acton and WCC.
2004 Church-State Relations: A Challenge for African Christianity, Nairobi: Acton (with Frank Kürschner-Pelkmann).
2004 Religions in Eastern Africa Under Globalization, Nairobi: Acton (with Mary N. Getui).
2001 Christian Theology and Environmental Responsibility, Nairobi: Acton.
1990 The S.M.
Otieno Case: Death and Burial in Modern Kenya, Nairobi University Press (with J.B. Ojwang) 1992 Moral and Ethical Issues in African Christianity Nairobi: Initiatives (with Nasimiyu Wasike).
1990 The Church in African Christianity, Nairobi: Initiatives (with Laurenti Magesa).
1989 Jesus in African Christianity, Nairobi: Initiatives (with Laurenti Magesa).
1969-2010 Mugambi has published more than 120 scholarly Articles.
1984-86 Co-Founder and Co-Editor, Quarterly Review of Religious Studies (with Prof. Ted Groenewegen) 1989-99 Co-Founder and Co-Editor, African Christianity Series (with Laurenti Magesa) 1992 Founder of Acton Publishers.
Natural theology, once also termed physico-theology, is a type of theology that provides arguments for the existence of God based on reason and ordinary experience of nature.
This distinguishes it from revealed theology, which is based on scripture and/or religious experiences, and also from transcendental theology, which is based on a priori reasoning.
Marcus Terentius Varro (116 BC – 27 BC) established a distinction between political theology (the social functions of religion), natural theology and mythical theology.
His terminology became part of the Stoic tradition and then Christianity through St. Augustine and St. Thomas Aquinas.
Natural theology is thus a type of philosophy, the object of which is explanation of the nature of the gods, or of one supreme God.
For monotheistic religions, this principally involves arguments about the attributes or non-attributes of God, and especially the existence of God, using arguments which do not involve recourse to supernatural revelation.
Besides Zarathushtra's Gathas, Plato gives the earliest surviving account of a natural theology.
In the Timaeus, written c. 360 BC, we read: "We must first investigate concerning [the whole Cosmos] that primary question which has to be investigated at the outset in every case, — namely, whether it has always existed, having no beginning or generation, or whether it has come into existence, having begun from some beginning."
In the Laws, in answer to the question as to what arguments justify faith in the gods, Plato affirms: "One is our dogma about the soul...the other is our dogma concerning the ordering of the motion of the stars".
Marcus Terentius Varro in his (lost) Antiquitates rerum humanarum et divinarum established a distinction between three kinds of theology: civil (political) (theologia civilis), natural (physical) (theologia naturalis) and mythical (theologia mythica).
The theologians of civil theology are "the people", asking how the gods relate to daily life and the state (imperial cult).
The theologians of natural theology are the philosophers, asking about the nature of the gods, and the theologians of mythical theology are the poets, crafting mythology.
From the 8th century AD, the Mutazilite school of Islam, compelled to defend their principles against the orthodox Islam of their day, used philosophy for support, and were among the first to pursue a rational Islamic theology, termed Ilm-al-Kalam (scholastic theology).
The teleological argument was later presented by the early Islamic philosophers Alkindus and Averroes, while Avicenna presented both the cosmological argument and the ontological argument in The Book of Healing (1027).
St. Thomas Aquinas (c.1225–1274) presented several versions of the cosmological argument in his Summa Theologica, and of the teleological argument in his Summa Contra Gentiles.
He presented the ontological argument, but rejected it in favor of proofs that invoke cause and effect alone.
His quinque viae ("five ways") in those books attempted to prove the existence of God in different ways, including (as way #5) the goal-directed actions seen in nature.
John Ray (1627–1705) also known as John Wray, was an English naturalist, sometimes referred to as the father of English natural history.
He published important works on plants, animals, and natural theology, with the objective "to illustrate the glory of God in the knowledge of the works of nature or creation".
William Derham (1657–1735) continued Ray's tradition of natural theology in two of his own works, Physico-Theology, published during 1713, and Astro-Theology, 1714.
These later influenced the work of William Paley.
In An Essay on the Principle of Population, published during 1798, Thomas Malthus ended with two chapters on natural theology and population.
Malthus—a devout Christian—argued that revelation would "damp the soaring wings of intellect", and thus never let "the difficulties and doubts of parts of the scripture" interfere with his work.
William Paley gave a well-known rendition of the teleological argument for God.
During 1802 he published Natural Theology, or Evidences of the Existence and Attributes of the Deity collected from the Appearances of Nature.
In this he described the Watchmaker analogy, for which he is probably best known, however, his book, which was one of the most published books of the 19th and 20th century, presents a number of teleological and cosmological arguments for the existence of God.
The book served as a template for many subsequent natural theologies during the 19th century.
Professor of chemistry and natural history, Edward Hitchcock also studied and wrote on natural theology.
He attempted to unify and reconcile science and religion, emphasizing geology.
His major work of this type was The Religion of Geology and its Connected Sciences (1851).
The Gifford Lectures were established by the will of Adam Lord Gifford to "promote and diffuse the study of Natural Theology in the widest sense of the term—in other words, the knowledge of God."
The term natural theology as used by Gifford means theology supported by science and not dependent on the miraculous.
Debates over the applicability of teleology to scientific questions continued during the nineteenth century, as Paley's argument about design conflicted with radical new theories on the transmutation of species.
In order to support the scientific ideas of the time, which explored the natural world within Paley's framework of a divine designer, Francis Henry Egerton, Earl of Bridgewater, a gentleman naturalist, commissioned eight Bridgewater Treatises upon his deathbed to explore "the Power, Wisdom, and Goodness of God, as manifested in the Creation."
They were published first during the years 1833 to 1840, and afterwards in Bohn's Scientific Library.
In response to the claim in Whewell's treatise that "We may thus, with the greatest propriety, deny to the mechanical philosophers and mathematicians of recent times any authority with regard to their views of the administration of the universe", Charles Babbage published what he termed The Ninth Bridgewater Treatise, A Fragment.
As his preface states, this volume was not part of that series, but rather his own considerations of the subject.
He draws on his own work on calculating engines to consider God as a divine programmer setting complex laws as the basis of what we think of as miracles, rather than miraculously producing new species by creative whim.
There was also a fragmentary supplement to this, published posthumously by Thomas Hill.
The theology of the Bridgewater Treatises was often disputed, given that it assumed humans could have knowledge of God acquired by observation and reasoning without the aid of revealed knowledge.
The works are of unequal merit; several of them were esteemed as apologetic literature, but they attracted considerable criticism.
One notable critic of the Bridgewater Treatises was Edgar Allan Poe, who wrote Criticism.
Robert Knox, an Edinburgh surgeon and major advocate of radical morphology, referred to them as the "Bilgewater Treatises", to mock the "ultra-teleological school".
Though memorable, this phrase overemphasises the influence of teleology in the series, at the expense of the idealism of the likes of Kirby and Roget.
Philip Clayton (born 1955) is a contemporary American theologian and philosopher who is the Ingraham Professor of Theology at Claremont School of Theology.
He received dual PhDs from Yale in philosophy and theology, working with Louis Dupre.
He also studied as a DAAD fellow under Wolfhart Pannenberg, eventually working as a translator of Pannenberg's theology.
Philip Clayton has held professorships at Williams College, California State University Sonoma, Harvard University, and Cambridge University.
His research focuses on the relationship between religion and science, process theology, philosophy of religion, and contemporary issues in ecology, religion, and ethics.
Clayton has received multiple research grants and international lectureships.
Minjung theology ( ; the people's theology) emerged in the 1970s from the experience of South Korean Christians in the struggle for social justice.
It is a people's theology, and, according to its authors, "a development of the political hermeneutics of the Gospel in terms of the Korean reality".
It is part of a wider Asian theological ferment, but it was not designed for export.
It "is firmly rooted in a particular situation, and growing out of the struggles of Christians who embrace their own history as well as the universal message of the Bible."
Minjung theology began with Ahn Byung Mu in the 1970s.
He is often considered the "father" of minjung theology.
Minjung, which means the "people" in the communist sense of the proletariat, is made up of people who are ostracized by the larger community.
Johann Nepomuk Ehrlich (February 21, 1810 &ndash; October 23, 1864) was an Austrian theologian and philosopher born in Vienna.
He initially studied philosophy in Krems (1828&ndash;1829), and from 1829 to 1834 studied philosophy and theology at the University of Vienna.
In 1834 he received his ordination, and from 1836 taught classes in philosophy, history and literature at the gymnasium in Krems.
In 1850 he obtained the theological doctorate in Tübingen, and during the same year was appointed professor of moral theology in Graz.
Two years later he relocated to the University of Prague as a professor of moral theology, where in 1856 he became a professor of fundamental theology.
In 1827, while still a teenager, Ehrlich joined the Piarists.
In 1853 he became an associate member of the Bohemian Society of Sciences.
Among his written works in theology and philosophy are the following:
Duncan B. Forrester (born 10 November 1933 in Edinburgh)  is a Scottish theologian and the founder of the Centre for Theology and Public Issues at New College, University of Edinburgh.
He is currently honorary fellow and professor emeritus at New College.
Forrester's writings are contributions to Christian ethics, missiology, practical theology, and political and public theology.
During the 1970s his writings focused on Protestant missions in India.
After founding the Centre for Theology and Public Issues (CTPI) in 1984, his work increasingly emphasized the intersection between theology and politics, with special reference to Scotland, the United Kingdom, and Europe.
He stepped down from the directorship of CTPI in 2000.
He also published historical studies of Christian worship in Scotland.
