... a sour little movie at its core ; an exploration of the emptiness that underlay the relentless gaiety of the 1920 's ... The film 's ending has a `` What was it all for ? ''
As it is , it 's too long and unfocused .
A decided lack of spontaneity in its execution and a dearth of real poignancy in its epiphanies .
You 'll forget about it by Monday , though , and if they 're old enough to have developed some taste , so will your kids .
The Ya-Ya 's have many secrets and one is - the books are better .
Wedding feels a bit anachronistic .
The Paradiso 's rusted-out ruin and ultimate collapse during the film 's final ( restored ) third ... emotionally belittle a cinema classic .
Collateral Damage is trash , but it earns extra points by acting as if it were n't .
It would take a complete moron to foul up a screen adaptation of Oscar Wilde 's classic satire .
An uncomfortable movie , suffocating and sometimes almost senseless , The Grey Zone does have a center , though a morbid one .
Director Douglas McGrath takes on Nickleby with all the halfhearted zeal of an 8th grade boy delving into required reading .
All comedy is subversive , but this unrelenting bleak insistence on opting out of any opportunity for finding meaning in relationships or work just becomes sad .
It 's not a motion picture ; it 's an utterly static picture .
Lacks the inspiration of the original and has a bloated plot that stretches the running time about 10 minutes past a child 's interest and an adult 's patience .
... the film 's considered approach to its subject matter is too calm and thoughtful for agitprop , and the thinness of its characterizations makes it a failure as straight drama . '
A devastating indictment of unbridled greed and materalism .
Many went to see the attraction for the sole reason that it was hot outside and there was air conditioning inside , and I do n't think that A.C. will help this movie one bit .
Like Rudy Yellow Lodge , Eyre needs to take a good sweat to clarify his cinematic vision before his next creation and remember the lessons of the trickster spider .
Perhaps the grossest movie ever made .
The directing and story are disjointed , flaws that have to be laid squarely on Taylor 's doorstep .
Imagine O. Henry 's The Gift of the Magi relocated to the scuzzy underbelly of NYC 's drug scene .
You can fire a torpedo through some of Clancy 's holes , and the scripters do n't deserve any Oscars .
If you 're the kind of parent who enjoys intentionally introducing your kids to films which will cause loads of irreparable damage that years and years of costly analysis could never fix , I have just one word for you - -- Decasia
`` ... something appears to have been lost in the translation this time .
Fred Schepisi 's film is paced at a speed that is slow to those of us in middle age and deathly slow to any teen .
Franco is an excellent choice for the walled-off but combustible hustler , but he does not give the transcendent performance SONNY needs to overcome gaps in character development and story logic .
I 'd rather watch a rerun of The Powerpuff Girls
An almost unbearably morbid love story .
About the only thing to give the movie points for is bravado -- to take an entirely stale concept and push it through the audience 's meat grinder one more time .
A sentimental mess that never rings true .
On a cutting room floor somewhere lies ... footage that might have made No Such Thing a trenchant , ironic cultural satire instead of a frustrating misfire .
Enough said , except : Film overboard !
As a remake , it 's a pale imitation .
It shows that some studios firmly believe that people have lost the ability to think and will forgive any shoddy product as long as there 's a little girl-on-girl action .
As exciting as all this exoticism might sound to the typical Pax viewer , the rest of us will be lulled into a coma .
The rest of the film ... is dudsville .
Our culture is headed down the toilet with the ferocity of a frozen burrito after an all-night tequila bender -- and I know this because I 've seen ` jackass : the movie . '
Killing time , that 's all that 's going on here .
Please , someone , stop Eric Schaeffer before he makes another film .
Most of the problems with the film do n't derive from the screenplay , but rather the mediocre performances by most of the actors involved
The effort is sincere and the results are honest , but the film is so bleak that it 's hardly watchable .
To the civilized mind , a movie like Ballistic : Ecks Vs. Sever is more of an ordeal than an amusement .
The lack of naturalness makes everything seem self-consciously poetic and forced ... It 's a pity that ( Nelson 's ) achievement does n't match his ambition .
The cumulative effect of watching this 65-minute trifle is rather like being trapped while some weird relative trots out the video he took of the family vacation to Stonehenge .
Before long , you 're desperate for the evening to end .
The characters are never more than sketches ... which leaves any true emotional connection or identification frustratingly out of reach .
... plays like a badly edited , 91-minute trailer ( and ) the director ca n't seem to get a coherent rhythm going .
In fact , it does n't even seem like she tried .
What you expect is just what you get ... assuming the bar of expectations has n't been raised above sixth-grade height .
The biggest problem with Roger Avary 's uproar against the MPAA is that , even in all its director 's cut glory , he 's made a film that 's barely shocking , barely interesting and most of all , barely anything .
I approached the usher and said that if she had to sit through it again , she should ask for a raise .
`` The Adventures of Pluto Nash '' is a big time stinker .
Even if the enticing prospect of a lot of nubile young actors in a film about campus depravity did n't fade amid the deliberate , tiresome ugliness , it would be rendered tedious by Avary 's failure to construct a story with even a trace of dramatic interest .
is significantly less charming than listening to a four-year-old with a taste for exaggeration recount his Halloween trip to the Haunted House .
Confuses its message with an ultimate desire to please , and contorting itself into an idea of expectation is the last thing any of these three actresses , nor their characters , deserve .
A movie more to be prescribed than recommended -- as visually bland as a dentist 's waiting room , complete with soothing Muzak and a cushion of predictable narrative rhythms .
Skip the film and buy the Philip Glass soundtrack CD .
Completely awful Iranian drama ... as much fun as a grouchy ayatollah in a cold mosque .
The most offensive thing about the movie is that Hollywood expects people to pay to see it .
The plot is nothing but boilerplate clichés from start to finish , and the script assumes that not only would subtlety be lost on the target audience , but that it 's also too stupid to realize that they 've already seen this exact same movie a hundred times
Terminally brain dead production .
Not only are the film 's Sopranos gags incredibly dated and unfunny , they also demonstrate how desperate the makers of this ` we 're - doing-it-for - the-cash ' sequel were .
I have not been this disappointed by a movie in a long time .
It 's a drag how Nettelbeck sees working women -- or at least this working woman -- for whom she shows little understanding .
It 's also curious to note that this film , like the similarly ill-timed Antitrust , is easily as bad at a fraction the budget .
Will probably be one of those movies barely registering a blip on the radar screen of 2002 .
There 's nothing interesting in Unfaithful whatsoever .
Fails as a dystopian movie , as a retooling of Fahrenheit 451 , and even as a rip-off of The Matrix .
An erotic thriller that 's neither too erotic nor very thrilling , either .
If you value your time and money , find an escape clause and avoid seeing this trite , predictable rehash .
The 50-something lovebirds are too immature and unappealing to care about .
As gamely as the movie tries to make sense of its title character , there remains a huge gap between the film 's creepy , clean-cut Dahmer ( Jeremy Renner ) and fiendish acts that no amount of earnest textbook psychologizing can bridge .
`` Solaris '' is a shapeless inconsequential move relying on the viewer to do most of the work .
An awful lot like one of ( Spears ' ) music videos in content -- except that it goes on for at least 90 more minutes and , worse , that you have to pay if you want to see it .
Confusion is one of my least favourite emotions , especially when I have to put up with 146 minutes of it .
By the time you reach the finale , you 're likely wondering why you 've been watching all this strutting and posturing .
Journalistically dubious , inept and often lethally dull .
There 's nothing to gain from watching They .
Rifkin no doubt fancies himself something of a Hubert Selby Jr. , but there is n't an ounce of honest poetry in his entire script ; it 's simply crude and unrelentingly exploitative .
Such a bad movie that its luckiest viewers will be seated next to one of those ignorant pinheads who talk throughout the show .
Stealing Harvard does n't care about cleverness , wit or any other kind of intelligent humor .
Imagine Kevin Smith , the blasphemous bad boy of suburban Jersey , if he were stripped of most of his budget and all of his sense of humor .
Suffers from a lack of clarity and audacity that a subject as monstrous and pathetic as Dahmer demands .
What soured me on The Santa Clause 2 was that Santa bumps up against 21st century reality so hard , it 's icky .
It 's an 88-minute highlight reel that 's 86 minutes too long .
Such an incomprehensible mess that it feels less like bad cinema than like being stuck in a dark pit having a nightmare about bad cinema .
The acting is n't much better .
( N ) o matter how much good will the actors generate , Showtime eventually folds under its own thinness .
The catch is that they 're stuck with a script that prevents them from firing on all cylinders .
Without Shakespeare 's eloquent language , the update is dreary and sluggish .
I 'm sure the filmmakers found this a remarkable and novel concept , but anybody who has ever seen an independent film can report that it is instead a cheap cliché .
An ugly-duckling tale so hideously and clumsily told it feels accidental .
Unfortunately , it 's also not very good .
Glazed with a tawdry B-movie scum .
This is the kind of movie during which you want to bang your head on the seat in front of you , at its cluelessness , at its idiocy , at its utterly misplaced earnestness .
To build a feel-good fantasy around a vain dictator-madman is off-putting , to say the least , not to mention inappropriate and wildly undeserved .
With the cheesiest monsters this side of a horror spoof , which They is n't , it is more likely to induce sleep than fright .
Astonishing is n't the word -- neither is incompetent , incoherent or just plain crap .
To better understand why this did n't connect with me would require another viewing , and I wo n't be sitting through this one again ... that in itself is commentary enough .
Not at all clear what it 's trying to say and even if it were -- I doubt it would be all that interesting .
( Swimfan ) falls victim to sloppy plotting , an insultingly unbelievable final act and a villainess who is too crazy to be interesting .
Why spend $ 9 on the same stuff you can get for a buck or so in that greasy little vidgame pit in the theater lobby ?
The French director has turned out nearly 21/2 hours of unfocused , excruciatingly tedious cinema that , half an hour in , starts making water torture seem appealing .
It 's hard to imagine any recent film , independent or otherwise , that makes as much of a mess as this one .
But the film itself is ultimately quite unengaging .
A muddled limp biscuit of a movie , a vampire soap opera that does n't make much sense even on its own terms .
This is the sort of low-grade dreck that usually goes straight to video -- with a lousy script , inept direction , pathetic acting , poorly dubbed dialogue and murky cinematography , complete with visible boom mikes .
Looks more like a travel-agency video targeted at people who like to ride bikes topless and roll in the mud than a worthwhile glimpse of independent-community guiding lights .
Given too much time to consider the looseness of the piece , the picture begins to resemble the shapeless , grasping actors ' workshop that it is .
( Carvey 's ) characters are both overplayed and exaggerated , but then again , subtlety has never been his trademark .
Oedekerk mugs mercilessly , and the genuinely funny jokes are few and far between .
Every now and again , a movie comes along to remind us of how very bad a motion picture can truly be .
It is messy , uncouth , incomprehensible , vicious and absurd .
Hampered -- no , paralyzed -- by a self-indulgent script ... that aims for poetry and ends up sounding like satire .
An infuriating film .
The entire movie is so formulaic and forgettable that it 's hardly over before it begins to fade from memory .
As pure over-the-top trash , any John Waters movie has it beat by a country mile .
Wendigo wants to be a monster movie for the art-house crowd , but it falls into the trap of pretention almost every time .
I ca n't begin to tell you how tedious , how resolutely unamusing , how thoroughly unrewarding all of this is , and what a reckless squandering of four fine acting talents ...
Eventually , they will have a showdown , but , by then , your senses are as mushy as peas and you do n't care who fires the winning shot .
Irwin and his director never come up with an adequate reason why we should pay money for what we can get on television for free .
To paraphrase a line from another Dickens ' novel , Nicholas Nickleby is too much like a fragment of an underdone potato .
The result , however well-intentioned , is ironically just the sort of disposable , kitchen-sink homage that illustrates why the whole is so often less than the sum of its parts in today 's Hollywood .
An extremely unpleasant film .
My only wish is that Celebi could take me back to a time before I saw this movie and I could just skip it .
The notion of deleting emotion from people , even in an advanced Prozac Nation , is so insanely dysfunctional that the rampantly designed Equilibrium becomes a concept doofus .
Adam Sandler 's Eight Crazy Nights grows on you -- like a rash .
The big-screen Scooby makes the silly original cartoon seem smart and well-crafted in comparison .
... unspeakably , unbearably dull , featuring reams of flatly delivered dialogue and a heroine who comes across as both shallow and dim-witted .
Devoid of any of the qualities that made the first film so special .
Plotless collection of moronic stunts is by far the worst movie of the year .
But the second half of the movie really goes downhill .
The script falls back on too many tried-and-true shenanigans that hardly distinguish it from the next teen comedy .
It 's the element of condescension , as the filmmakers look down on their working-class subjects from their lofty perch , that finally makes Sex With Strangers , which opens today in the New York metropolitan area , so distasteful .
The most memorable moment was when Green threw medical equipment at a window ; not because it was particularly funny , but because I had a serious urge to grab the old lady at the end of my aisle 's walker and toss it at the screen in frustration .
Suffers from over-familiarity since hit-hungry British filmmakers have strip-mined the Monty formula mercilessly since 1997 .
Yes , I have given this movie a rating of zero .
The cumulative effect of the movie is repulsive and depressing .
It 's still terrible !
The animation and game phenomenon that peaked about three years ago is actually dying a slow death , if the poor quality of Pokemon 4 Ever is any indication .
Mr. Soderbergh 's direction and visual style struck me as unusually and unimpressively fussy and pretentious .
About as enjoyable , I would imagine , as searching for a quarter in a giant pile of elephant feces ... positively dreadful .
Absurdities and clichés accumulate like lint in a fat man 's navel .
The sheer dumbness of the plot ( other than its one good idea ) and the movie 's inescapable air of sleaziness get you down .
This flat run at a hip-hop Tootsie is so poorly paced you could fit all of Pootie Tang in between its punchlines .
None of this is very original , and it is n't particularly funny .
... a bland murder-on-campus yawner .
A humorless journey into a philosophical void .
McKay seems embarrassed by his own invention and tries to rush through the intermediary passages , apparently hoping that the audience will not notice the glaring triteness of the plot device he has put in service .
The problem with ANTWONE FISHER is that it has a screenplay written by Antwone Fisher based on the book by Antwone Fisher .
Tries to work in the same vein as the brilliance of Animal House but instead comes closer to the failure of the third Revenge of the Nerds sequel .
Unfortunately , Kapur modernizes A.E.W. Mason 's story to suit the sensibilities of a young American , a decision that plucks `` The Four Feathers '' bare .
... what a banal bore the preachy Circuit turns out to be
A mechanical action-comedy whose seeming purpose is to market the charismatic Jackie Chan to even younger audiences .
One of the most incoherent features in recent memory .
The issues are presented in such a lousy way , complete with some of the year 's ( unintentionally ) funniest moments , that it 's impossible to care .
` This movie sucks . '
Although the sequel has all the outward elements of the original , the first film 's lovely flakiness is gone , replaced by the forced funniness found in the dullest kiddie flicks .
The jokes are flat , and the action looks fake .
There are now two signs that M. Night Shyamalan 's debut feature sucked up all he has to give to the mystic genres of cinema : Unbreakable and Signs .
... a weak and ineffective ghost story without a conclusion or pay off .
Plodding , poorly written , murky and weakly acted , the picture feels as if everyone making it lost their movie mojo .
This is a fudged opportunity of gigantic proportions -- a lunar mission with no signs of life .
The only thing that distinguishes a Randall Wallace film from any other is the fact that there is nothing distinguishing in a Randall Wallace film .
Below is well below expectations .
It does n't work as either .
Given the fact that virtually no one is bound to show up at theatres for it , the project should have been made for the tube .
A 75-minute sample of puerile rubbish that is listless , witless , and devoid of anything resembling humor .
The waterlogged script plumbs uncharted depths of stupidity , incoherence and sub-sophomoric sexual banter .
Sets animation back 30 years , musicals back 40 years and Judaism back at least 50 .
The thing just never gets off the ground .
Most of the storylines feel like time fillers between surf shots .
So devoid of pleasure or sensuality that it can not even be dubbed hedonistic .
The problem is that it is one that allows him to churn out one mediocre movie after another .
Kirshner and Monroe seem to be in a contest to see who can out-bad-act the other .
A lame romantic comedy about an unsympathetic character and someone who would not likely be so stupid as to get involved with her .
( Sam 's ) self-flagellation is more depressing than entertaining .
An ugly , pointless , stupid movie .
This is an ungainly movie , ill-fitting , with its elbows sticking out where the knees should be .
No , I hate it .
This mess of a movie is nothing short of a travesty of a transvestite comedy .
It 's clotted with heavy-handed symbolism , dime-store psychology and endless scenic shots that make 105 minutes seem twice as long .
A fifty car pileup of cliches .
It 's a stale , overused cocktail using the same olives since 1962 as garnish .
Not only is entry number twenty the worst of the Brosnan bunch , it 's one of the worst of the entire franchise .
What ultimately makes Windtalkers a disappointment is the superficial way it deals with its story .
It 's simply stupid , irrelevant and deeply , truly , bottomlessly cynical .
The drama was so uninspiring that even a story immersed in love , lust , and sin could n't keep my attention .
The misery of these people becomes just another voyeuristic spectacle , to be consumed and forgotten .
A markedly inactive film , City is conversational bordering on confessional .
We 've liked Klein 's other work but Rollerball left us cold .
They were afraid to show this movie to reviewers before its opening , afraid of the bad reviews they thought they 'd earn .
It would be churlish to begrudge anyone for receiving whatever consolation that can be found in Dragonfly , yet it is impossible to find the film anything but appalling , shamelessly manipulative and contrived , and totally lacking in conviction .
Offers no new insight on the matter , nor do its characters exactly spring to life .
A 94-minute travesty of unparalleled proportions , writer-director Parker seems to go out of his way to turn the legendary wit 's classic mistaken identity farce into brutally labored and unfunny hokum .
Guy gets girl , guy loses girl , audience falls asleep .
It 's pretentious in a way that verges on the amateurish .
Partly a schmaltzy , by-the-numbers romantic comedy , partly a shallow rumination on the emptiness of success -- and entirely soulless .
... this is n't even a movie we can enjoy as mild escapism ; it is one in which fear and frustration are provoked to intolerable levels .
Frankly , it 's kind of insulting , both to men and women .
And it 's not that funny -- which is just generally insulting .
One of those films that started with a great premise and then just fell apart .
( MacDowell ) ventures beyond her abilities several times here and reveals how bad an actress she is .
Talky , artificial and opaque ... an interesting technical exercise , but a tedious picture .
Seagal ran out of movies years ago , and this is just the proof .
The movie is so contrived , nonsensical and formulaic that , come to think of it , the day-old shelf would be a more appropriate location to store it .
An awkwardly garish showcase that diverges from anything remotely probing or penetrating .
Jackass is a vulgar and cheap-looking version of Candid Camera staged for the Marquis de Sade set .
The problem is the needlessly poor quality of its archival prints and film footage .
Like a soft drink that 's been sitting open too long : it 's too much syrup and not enough fizz .
As the movie dragged on , I thought I heard a mysterious voice , and felt myself powerfully drawn toward the light -- the light of the exit sign .
I have returned from the beyond to warn you : this movie is 90 minutes long , and life is too short .
The Adventures of Pluto Nash is a whole lot of nada .
Despite the fact that this film was n't as bad as I thought it was going to be , it 's still not a good movie
Tiresomely derivative and hammily acted .
We never truly come to care about the main characters and whether or not they 'll wind up together , and Michele 's spiritual quest is neither amusing nor dramatic enough to sustain interest .
As plain and pedestrian as catsup --
It 's petty thievery like this that puts flimsy flicks like this behind bars
Some of the characters die and others do n't , and the film pretends that those living have learned some sort of lesson , and , really , nobody in the viewing audience cares .
Just another combination of bad animation and mindless violence ... lacking the slightest bit of wit or charm .
All the movie 's narrative gymnastics ca n't disguise the fact that it 's inauthentic at its core and that its story just is n't worth telling .
Much like its easily dismissive take on the upscale lifestyle , there is n't much there here .
` The Château is never quite able to overcome the cultural moat surrounding its ludicrous and contrived plot . '
Despite terrific special effects and funnier gags , Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets finds a way to make J.K. Rowling 's marvelous series into a deadly bore .
... a cheap , ludicrous attempt at serious horror .
Those of you who are not an eighth grade girl will most likely doze off during this one .
Imagine ( if possible ) a Pasolini film without passion or politics , or an Almodovar movie without beauty or humor , and you have some idea of the glum , numb experience of watching O Fantasma .
90 punitive minutes of eardrum-dicing gunplay , screeching-metal smashups , and flaccid odd-couple sniping .
Never capitalizes on this concept and opts for the breezy and amateurish feel of an after school special on the subject of tolerance .
It 's uninteresting .
A surprisingly flat retread , hobbled by half-baked setups and sluggish pacing .
A film that should be relegated to a dark video store corner is somehow making its way instead to theaters .
It 's hard to imagine acting that could be any flatter .
New ways of describing badness need to be invented to describe exactly how bad it is .
Lots of effort and intelligence are on display but in execution it is all awkward , static , and lifeless rumblings .
Their parents would do well to cram earplugs in their ears and put pillowcases over their heads for 87 minutes .
Several uninteresting , unlikeable people do bad things to and with each other in `` Unfaithful . ''
Why anyone who is not a character in this movie should care is beyond me .
It 's not a bad premise , just a bad movie .
An already thin story boils down to surviving invaders seeking an existent anti-virus .
The heedless impetuousness of youth is on full , irritating display in ( this ) meandering and pointless French coming-of-age import from writer-director Anne-Sophie Birot .
A peculiar misfire that even Tunney ca n't save .
It is that rare combination of bad writing , bad direction and bad acting -- the trifecta of badness .
Borstal Boy represents the worst kind of filmmaking , the kind that pretends to be passionate and truthful but is really frustratingly timid and soggy .
The film 's lack of personality permeates all its aspects -- from the TV movie-esque , affected child acting to the dullest Irish pub scenes ever filmed .
Crush could be the worst film a man has made about women since Valley of the Dolls .
I have to admit I walked out of Runteldat .
I did go back and check out the last 10 minutes , but these were more repulsive than the first 30 or 40 minutes .
There 's already been too many of these films ...
` The War of the Roses , ' trailer-trash style .
The film feels formulaic , its plot and pacing typical Hollywood war-movie stuff , while the performances elicit more of a sense of deja vu than awe .
This overproduced piece of dreck is shockingly bad and absolutely unnecessary .
Mr. Deeds is not really a film as much as it is a loose collection of not-so-funny gags , scattered moments of lazy humor .
A mean-spirited film made by someone who surely read The Catcher in the Rye but clearly suffers from dyslexia
A movie so bad that it quickly enters the pantheon of wreckage that includes Battlefield Earth and Showgirls .
It 's just too bad the screenwriters eventually shoot themselves in the feet with cop flick cliches like an oily arms dealer , squad car pile-ups and the requisite screaming captain .
To be influenced chiefly by humanity 's greatest shame , reality shows -- reality shows for God 's sake !
A frustrating ` tweener ' -- too slick , contrived and exploitative for the art houses and too cynical , small and decadent for the malls .
Quite frankly , I ca n't see why any actor of talent would ever work in a McCulloch production again if they looked at how this movie turned out .
My precious new Star Wars movie is a lumbering , wheezy drag ...
Should have gone straight to video .
It looks like an action movie , but it 's so poorly made , on all levels , that it does n't even qualify as a spoof of such .
It is supremely unfunny and unentertaining to watch middle-age and older men drink to excess , piss on trees , b.s. one another and put on a show in drag .
A boring , pretentious muddle that uses a sensational , real-life 19th-Century crime as a metaphor for -- well , I 'm not exactly sure what -- and has all the dramatic weight of a raindrop .
It is very difficult to care about the character , and that is the central flaw of the film .
... a complete shambles of a movie so sloppy , so uneven , so damn unpleasant that I ca n't believe any viewer , young or old , would have a good time here .
Feels at times like a giant commercial for Universal Studios , where much of the action takes place .
Every sequel you skip will be two hours gained .
Big Fat Liar is little more than Home Alone raised to a new , self-deprecating level .
Loses its sense of humor in a vat of failed jokes , twitchy acting , and general boorishness .
The story suffers a severe case of oversimplification , superficiality and silliness .
But if the essence of magic is its make-believe promise of life that soars above the material realm , this is the opposite of a truly magical movie .
This thing is just garbage .
There must be an audience that enjoys the Friday series , but I would n't be interested in knowing any of them personally .
My own minority report is that it stinks .
... if you , like me , think an action film disguised as a war tribute is disgusting to begin with , then you 're in for a painful ride .
... unlike ( Scorsese 's Mean Streets ) , Ash Wednesday is essentially devoid of interesting characters or even a halfway intriguing plot .
Yes , I suppose it 's lovely that Cal works out his issues with his dad and comes to terms with his picture-perfect life -- but World Traveler gave me no reason to care , so I did n't .
It is not the first time that director Sara Sugarman stoops to having characters drop their pants for laughs and not the last time she fails to provoke them .
Nothing more than an amiable but unfocused bagatelle that plays like a loosely-connected string of acting-workshop exercises .
What remains is a variant of the nincompoop Benigni persona , here a more annoying , though less angry version of the irresponsible Sandlerian manchild , undercut by the voice of the star of Road Trip .
Take away the controversy , and it 's not much more watchable than a Mexican soap opera .
A lot of talent is wasted in this crass , low-wattage endeavor .
It 's probably not easy to make such a worthless film ...
Has no reason to exist , other than to employ Hollywood kids and people who owe favors to their famous parents .
For a guy who has waited three years with breathless anticipation for a new Hal Hartley movie to pore over , No Such Thing is a big letdown .
Constantly slips from the grasp of its maker .
After you laugh once ( maybe twice ) , you will have completely forgotten the movie by the time you get back to your car in the parking lot .
At the one-hour mark , Herzog simply runs out of ideas and the pace turns positively leaden as the movie sputters to its inevitable tragic conclusion .
Mr. Goyer 's loose , unaccountable direction is technically sophisticated in the worst way .
By that measure , it is a failure .
You see the movie and you think , zzzzzzzzz .
Downright transparent is the script 's endless assault of embarrassingly ham-fisted sex jokes that reek of a script rewrite designed to garner the film a `` cooler '' PG-13 rating .
The movie slides downhill as soon as macho action conventions assert themselves .
`` Analyze That '' is one of those crass , contrived sequels that not only fails on its own , but makes you second-guess your affection for the original .
... an airless , prepackaged Julia Roberts wannabe that stinks so badly of hard-sell image-mongering you 'll wonder if Lopez 's publicist should share screenwriting credit .
Goldmember has none of the visual wit of the previous pictures , and it looks as though Jay Roach directed the film from the back of a taxicab .
In comparison to his earlier films it seems a disappointingly thin slice of lower-class London life ; despite the title ... amounts to surprisingly little .
The jokes are sophomoric , stereotypes are sprinkled everywhere and the acting ranges from bad to bodacious .
This long and relentlessly saccharine film is a clear case of preaching to the converted .
The first Fatal Attraction was vile enough .
It made me feel unclean , and I 'm the guy who liked There 's Something About Mary and both American Pie movies .
A loud , low-budget and tired formula film that arrives cloaked in the euphemism ` urban drama . '
The movie has a script ( by Paul Pender ) made of wood , and it 's relentlessly folksy , a procession of stagy set pieces stacked with binary oppositions .
A pathetic exploitation film that tries to seem sincere , and just seems worse for the effort .
One of those strained caper movies that 's hardly any fun to watch and begins to vaporize from your memory minutes after it ends .
Scarcely worth a mention apart from reporting on the number of tumbleweeds blowing through the empty theatres graced with its company .
The sinister inspiration that fuelled DeVito 's early work is confused in Death to Smoochy into something both ugly and mindless .
Do n't even bother to rent this on video .
This is the kind of movie that gets a quick release before real contenders arrive in September .
Not counting a few gross-out comedies I 've been trying to forget , this is the first film in a long time that made me want to bolt the theater in the first 10 minutes .
The film does n't have enough innovation or pizazz to attract teenagers , and it lacks the novel charm that made Spy Kids a surprising winner with both adults and younger audiences .
Depicts the sorriest and most sordid of human behavior on the screen , then laughs at how clever it 's being .
The only thing scary about feardotcom is that the filmmakers and studio are brazen enough to attempt to pass this stinker off as a scary movie .
It just did n't mean much to me and played too skewed to ever get a hold on ( or be entertained by ) .
MIB II is a movie that makes it possible for the viewer to doze off for a few minutes or make several runs to the concession stand and/or restroom and not feel as if he or she has missed anything .
No amount of arty theorizing -- the special effects are ` German-Expressionist , ' according to the press notes -- can render it anything but laughable .
I 'm not sure these words have ever been together in the same sentence : This erotic cannibal movie is boring .
... an hour-and-a-half of inoffensive , unmemorable filler .
Ah , yes , that would be me : fighting off the urge to doze .
Contrived , awkward and filled with unintended laughs , the film shows signs that someone other than the director got into the editing room and tried to improve things by making the movie go faster .
This movie feel more like a non-stop cry for attention , than an attempt at any kind of satisfying entertainment .
In addition to the overcooked , ham-fisted direction , which has all the actors reaching for the back row , the dialogue sounds like horrible poetry .
It 's as if De Palma spent an hour setting a fancy table and then served up Kraft Macaroni and Cheese .
Comes across as a relic from a bygone era , and its convolutions ... feel silly rather than plausible .
Once one experiences Mr. Haneke 's own sadistic tendencies toward his audience , one is left with a sour taste in one 's mouth , and little else .
That chirpy songbird Britney Spears has popped up with more mindless drivel .
It 's a loathsome movie , it really is and it makes absolutely no sense .
A chiller resolutely without chills .
`` Bad '' is the operative word for `` Bad Company , '' and I do n't mean that in a good way .
Merely ( and literally ) tosses around sex toys and offers half-hearted paeans to empowerment that are repeatedly undercut by the brutality of the jokes , most at women 's expense .
... grows decidedly flimsier with its many out-sized , out of character and logically porous action set pieces .
The whole film has this sneaky feel to it -- as if the director is trying to dupe the viewer into taking it all as Very Important simply because the movie is ugly to look at and not a Hollywood product .
The only way to tolerate this insipid , brutally clueless film might be with a large dose of painkillers .
Bad and baffling from the get-go .
Like a can of 2-day old Coke .
Other than a mildly engaging central romance , Hospital is sickly entertainment at best and mind-destroying cinematic pollution at worst .
By the time the plot grinds itself out in increasingly incoherent fashion , you might be wishing for a watch that makes time go faster rather than the other way around .
The movie is a desperate miscalculation .
In that setting , their struggle is simply too ludicrous and borderline insulting .
Instead of making his own style , director Marcus Adams just copies from various sources -- good sources , bad mixture
A story which fails to rise above its disgusting source material .
It 's fitting that a movie as artificial and soulless as The Country Bears owes its genesis to an animatronic display at Disneyland .
Starts as an intense political and psychological thriller but is sabotaged by ticking time bombs and other Hollywood-action cliches .
Completely creatively stillborn and executed in a manner that I 'm not sure could be a single iota worse ... a soulless hunk of exploitative garbage .
Horrible .
The disjointed mess flows as naturally as Jolie 's hideous yellow ` do .
Makes a joke out of car chases for an hour and then gives us half an hour of car chases .
The only thing to fear about `` Fear Dot Com '' is hitting your head on the theater seat in front of you when you doze off thirty minutes into the film .
It 's too interested in jerking off in all its Byzantine incarnations to bother pleasuring its audience .
This ill-conceived and expensive project winds up looking like a bunch of talented thesps slumming it .
A particularly joyless , and exceedingly dull , period coming-of-age tale .
... it was n't the subject matter that ultimately defeated the film ... It was the unfulfilling , incongruous , `` wait a second , did I miss something ? ''
Poor editing , bad bluescreen , and ultra-cheesy dialogue highlight the radical action .
It 's super - violent , super-serious and super-stupid .
It 's Splash without the jokes .
Shallow , noisy and pretentious .
This loud and thoroughly obnoxious comedy about a pair of squabbling working-class spouses is a deeply unpleasant experience .
Philosophically , intellectually and logistically a mess .
Two hours of junk .
It 's been 13 months and 295 preview screenings since I last walked out on a movie , but Resident Evil really earned my indignant , preemptive departure .
Diaz wears out her welcome in her most charmless performance
The actors try hard but come off too amateurish and awkward .
Dripping with cliche and bypassing no opportunity to trivialize the material .
Stiff and schmaltzy and clumsily directed .
Once Ice-T sticks his mug in the window of the couple 's BMW and begins haranguing the wife in bad stage dialogue , all credibility flies out the window .
It would be great to see this turd squashed under a truck , preferably a semi .
For most movies , 84 minutes is short , but this one feels like a life sentence .
Tries so hard to be quirky and funny that the strain is all too evident .
With jump cuts , fast editing and lots of pyrotechnics , Yu clearly hopes to camouflage how bad his movie is .
A very depressing movie of many missed opportunities .
Boy , has this franchise ever run out of gas .
The comedy is nonexistent .
It 's not just the vampires that are damned in Queen of the Damned -- the viewers will feel they suffer the same fate .
This is the case of a pregnant premise being wasted by a script that takes few chances and manages to insult the intelligence of everyone in the audience .
The director , with his fake backdrops and stately pacing , never settles on a consistent tone .
After seeing the film , I can tell you that there 's no other reason why anyone should bother remembering it .
The only thing `` swept away '' is the one hour and thirty-three minutes spent watching this waste of time .
... Stylistically , the movie is a disaster .
Despite bearing the Paramount imprint , it 's a bargain-basement European pickup .
What 's hard to understand is why anybody picked it up .
Sewer rats could watch this movie and be so skeeved out that they 'd need a shower .
Just another disjointed , fairly predictable psychological thriller .
Even the hastily and amateurishly drawn animation can not engage .
So boring that even its target audience talked all the way through it .
One of the more glaring signs of this movie 's servitude to its superstar is the way it skirts around any scenes that might have required genuine acting from Ms. Spears .
Hollywood Ending is the most disappointing Woody Allen movie ever .
Ringu is a disaster of a story , full of holes and completely lacking in chills .
` It 's painful to watch Witherspoon 's talents wasting away inside unnecessary films like Legally Blonde and Sweet Home Abomination , I mean , Alabama . '
A plodding teen remake that 's so mechanical you can smell the grease on the plot twists .
Ms. Phoenix is completely lacking in charm and charisma , and is unable to project either Esther 's initial anomie or her eventual awakening .
The movie fails to portray its literarily talented and notorious subject as anything much more than a dirty old man .
A clichéd and shallow cautionary tale about the hard-partying lives of gay men .
The original was n't a good movie but this remake makes it look like a masterpiece !
There 's no palpable chemistry between Lopez and male lead Ralph Fiennes , plus the script by Working Girl scribe Kevin Wade is workmanlike in the extreme .
I 'm not sure which half of Dragonfly is worse : The part where nothing 's happening , or the part where something 's happening , but it 's stupid .
The only camouflage Carvey should now be considering is a paper bag to wear over his head when he goes out into public , to avoid being recognized as the man who bilked unsuspecting moviegoers .
Shot like a postcard and overacted with all the boozy self-indulgence that brings out the worst in otherwise talented actors ...
The latest Adam Sandler assault and possibly the worst film of the year .
But it 's hard to imagine a more generic effort in the genre .
A movie in which two not very absorbing characters are engaged in a romance you ca n't wait to see end .
The predominantly amateur cast is painful to watch , so stilted and unconvincing are the performances .
It 's a visual Rorschach test and I must have failed .
... a hokey piece of nonsense that tries too hard to be emotional .
Thumbs down .
The characters are paper thin and the plot is so cliched and contrived that it makes your least favorite James Bond movie seem as cleverly plotted as The Usual Suspects .
If we 're to slap protagonist Genevieve LePlouff because she 's French , do we have that same option to slap her creators because they 're clueless and inept ?
This thing works on no level whatsoever for me .
An incoherent jumble of a film that 's rarely as entertaining as it could have been .
What might have been acceptable on the printed page of Iles ' book does not translate well to the screen .
A poky and pseudo-serious exercise in sham actor workshops and an affected malaise .
May cause you to bite your tongue to keep from laughing at the ridiculous dialog or the oh-so convenient plot twists .
Where 's the movie here ?
Buries an interesting storyline about morality and the choices we make underneath such a mountain of clichés and borrowed images that it might more accurately be titled Mr. Chips off the Old Block .
It 's so badly made on every level that I 'm actually having a hard time believing people were paid to make it .
In its own way , Joshua is as blasphemous and nonsensical as a Luis Buñuel film without the latter 's attendant intelligence , poetry , passion , and genius .
an appalling ` Ace Ventura ' rip-off that somehow manages to bring together Kevin Pollak , former wrestler Chyna and Dolly Parton .
The only entertainment you 'll derive from this choppy and sloppy affair will be from unintentional giggles -- several of them .
... a plotline that 's as lumpy as two-day old porridge ... the filmmakers ' paws , sad to say , were all over this `` un-bear-able '' project !
Is there a group of more self-absorbed women than the mother and daughters featured in this film ?
Another week , another gross-out college comedy -- ugh .
The movie is virtually without context -- journalistic or historical .
or maybe `` How will you feel after an 88-minute rip-off of The Rock with action confined to slo-mo gun firing and random glass-shattering ? ''
The appeal of the vulgar , sexist , racist humour went over my head or -- considering just how low brow it is -- perhaps it snuck under my feet .
`` Interview '' loses its overall sense of mystery and becomes a TV episode rather than a documentary that you actually buy into .
Thoughtless , random , superficial humour and a lot of very bad Scouse accents
Should n't have been allowed to use the word `` new '' in its title , because there 's not an original character , siuation or joke in the entire movie .
Reign of Fire has the disadvantage of also looking cheap .
It 's a bad sign when you 're rooting for the film to hurry up and get to its subjects ' deaths just so the documentary will be over , but it 's indicative of how uncompelling the movie is unless it happens to cover your particular area of interest .
A semi-autobiographical film that 's so sloppily written and cast that you can not believe anyone more central to the creation of Bugsy than the caterer had anything to do with it .
The movie barely makes sense , with its unbelievable naïveté and arbitrary flashbacks .
Build some robots , haul 'em to the theatre with you for the late show , and put on your own Mystery Science Theatre 3000 tribute to what is almost certainly going to go down as the worst -- and only -- killer website movie of this or any other year .
... has about 3/4th the fun of its spry 2001 predecessor -- but it 's a rushed , slapdash , sequel-for-the-sake - of-a-sequel with less than half the plot and ingenuity .
... pitiful , slapdash disaster .
A DOA dud from frame one .
Distances you by throwing out so many red herrings , so many false scares , that the genuine ones barely register .
A predictable , manipulative stinker .
The movie suffers from two fatal ailments -- a dearth of vitality and a story that 's shapeless and uninflected .
once she lets her love depraved leads meet , ( Denis ' ) story becomes a hopeless , unsatisfying muddle
A gratingly unfunny groaner littered with zero-dimensional , unlikable characters and hackneyed , threadbare comic setups .
I guess it just goes to show that if you give a filmmaker an unlimited amount of phony blood , nothing good can happen .
Gaghan captures the half-lit , sometimes creepy intimacy of college dorm rooms , a subtlety that makes the silly , over-the-top coda especially disappointing .
One of the most unpleasant things the studio has ever produced .
True to its animatronic roots : ... as stiff , ponderous and charmless as a mechanical apparatus ... ` The Country Bears ' should never have been brought out of hibernation .
The script 's judgment and sense of weight is way , way off .
Evelyn may be based on a true and historically significant story , but the filmmakers have made every effort to disguise it as an unimaginative screenwriter 's invention .
A derivative collection of horror and sci-fi cliches .
Loosely speaking , we 're in All of Me territory again , and , strictly speaking , Schneider is no Steve Martin .
As aimless as an old pickup skidding completely out of control on a long patch of black ice , the movie makes two hours feel like four .
Has all the scenic appeal of a cesspool .
Contrived , maudlin and cliche-ridden ... if this sappy script was the best the contest received , those rejected must have been astronomically bad .
I hate the feeling of having been slimed in the name of High Art .
Whether Jason X is this bad on purpose is never clear .
But one thing 's for sure : It never comes close to being either funny or scary .
is that it 's a crime movie made by someone who obviously knows nothing about crime .
Instead , it 'll only put you to sleep .
It 's also not smart or barbed enough for older viewers -- not everyone thinks poo-poo jokes are ` edgy . '
A sleep-inducingly slow-paced crime drama with clumsy dialogue , heavy-handed phoney-feeling sentiment , and an overly-familiar set of plot devices .
It is depressing , ruthlessly pained and depraved , the movie equivalent of staring into an open wound .
For the future , one hopes Mr. Plympton will find room for one more member of his little band , a professional screenwriter .
A cheap scam put together by some cynical creeps at Revolution Studios and Imagine Entertainment to make the suckers out there surrender $ 9 and 93 minutes of unrecoverable life .
For a story set at sea , Ghost Ship is pretty landbound , with its leaden acting , dull exposition and telegraphed ` surprises . '
I like my Christmas movies with more elves and snow and less pimps and ho 's .
Equilibrium the movie , as opposed to the manifesto , is really , really stupid .
This kiddie-oriented stinker is so bad that I even caught the gum stuck under my seat trying to sneak out of the theater
Cox offers plenty of glimpses at existing photos , but there are no movies of Nijinsky , so instead the director treats us to an aimless hodgepodge .
The entire film is one big excuse to play one lewd scene after another .
( Less a movie than ) an appalling , odoriferous thing ... so rotten in almost every single facet of production that you 'll want to crawl up your own *** in embarrassment .
Even if you 're an Elvis person , you wo n't find anything to get excited about on this DVD .
The Tuxedo miscalculates badly by forcing the star to play second fiddle to the dull effects that allow the suit to come to life .
Not even Steven Spielberg has dreamed up such blatant and sickening product placement in a movie .
It 's all surface psychodramatics .
Kitschy , flashy , overlong soap opera .
An undistinguished attempt to make a classic theater piece cinematic .
too many scenarios in which the hero might have an opportunity to triumphantly sermonize , and too few that allow us to wonder for ourselves if things will turn out okay .
Has the disjointed feel of a bunch of strung-together TV episodes .
Ozpetek offers an AIDS subtext , skims over the realities of gay sex , and presents yet another tired old vision of the gay community as an all-inclusive world where uptight , middle class bores like Antonia can feel good about themselves .
The Sweetest Thing is expressly for idiots who do n't care what kind of sewage they shovel into their mental gullets to simulate sustenance .
Sinks so low in a poorly played game of absurd plot twists , idiotic court maneuvers and stupid characters that even Freeman ca n't save it .
Seemingly a vehicle to showcase the Canadian 's inane ramblings , Stealing Harvard is a smorgasbord of soliloquies about nothing delivered by the former Mr. Drew Barrymore .
This franchise has not spawned a single good film .
The crap continues .
When it comes out on video , then it 's the perfect cure for insomnia .
A stupid , derivative horror film that substitutes extreme gore for suspense .
An annoying orgy of excess and exploitation that has no point and goes nowhere .
A tired , unnecessary retread ... a stale copy of a picture that was n't all that great to begin with .
The emotional overload of female angst irreparably drags the film down .
Seagal , who looks more like Danny Aiello these days , mumbles his way through the movie .
I can analyze this movie in three words : Thumbs Friggin ' Down .
Make like the title and dodge this one .
This is not one of the movies you 'd want to watch if you only had a week to live .
A vile , incoherent mess ... a scummy ripoff of David Cronenberg 's brilliant ` Videodrome . '
Think The Lion King redone for horses , with fewer deliberate laughs , more inadvertent ones and stunningly trite songs by Bryan Adams , the world 's most generic rock star .
An amateurish , quasi-improvised acting exercise shot on ugly digital video .
Would Benigni 's Italian Pinocchio have been any easier to sit through than this hastily dubbed disaster ?
This is a fragmented film , once a good idea that was followed by the bad idea to turn it into a movie .
Control-Alt-Delete Simone as quickly as possible
... no charm , no laughs , no fun , no reason to watch .
A generic family comedy unlikely to be appreciated by anyone outside the under-10 set .
Kung Pow seems like some futile concoction that was developed hastily after Oedekerk and his fellow moviemakers got through crashing a college keg party .
A profoundly stupid affair , populating its hackneyed and meanspirited storyline with cardboard characters and performers who value cash above credibility .
... pays tribute to heroes the way Julia Roberts hands out awards -- with phony humility barely camouflaging grotesque narcissism .
As a director , Eastwood is off his game -- there 's no real sense of suspense , and none of the plot ` surprises ' are really surprising .
Be forewarned , if you 're depressed about anything before watching this film , you may just end up trying to drown yourself in a lake afterwards .
a terrible adaptation of a play that only ever walked the delicate tightrope between farcical and loathsome .
A limp Eddie Murphy vehicle that even he seems embarrassed to be part of .
So muddled , repetitive and ragged that it says far less about the horrifying historical reality than about the filmmaker 's characteristic style .
No one involved , save Dash , shows the slightest aptitude for acting , and the script , credited to director Abdul Malik Abbott and Ernest ` Tron ' Anderson , seems entirely improvised .
There 's not a single jump-in-your-seat moment and believe it or not , Jason actually takes a backseat in his own film to special effects .
The documentary is much too conventional -- lots of boring talking heads , etc. -- to do the subject matter justice .
Far too clever by half , Howard 's film is really a series of strung-together moments , with all the spaces in between filled with fantasies , daydreams , memories and one fantastic visual trope after another .
A Rumor of Angels does n't just slip -- it avalanches into forced fuzziness .
No big whoop , nothing new to see , zero thrills , too many flashbacks and a choppy ending make for a bad film .
Shankman ... and screenwriter Karen Janszen bungle their way through the narrative as if it were a series of Bible parables and not an actual story .
Slack and uninspired , and peopled mainly by characters so unsympathetic that you 're left with a sour taste in your mouth .
Skip this turd and pick your nose instead because you 're sure to get more out of the latter experience .
In the end , there is n't much to it .
You could easily mistake it for a sketchy work-in-progress that was inexplicably rushed to the megaplexes before its time .
for those for whom the name Woody Allen was once a guarantee of something fresh , sometimes funny , and usually genuinely worthwhile , Hollywood Ending is a depressing experience
It could have been something special , but two things drag it down to mediocrity -- director Clare Peploe 's misunderstanding of Marivaux 's rhythms , and Mira Sorvino 's limitations as a classical actress .
Everything was as superficial as the forced New Jersey lowbrow accent Uma had .
One of the most highly-praised disappointments I 've had the misfortune to watch in quite some time .
Strong filmmaking requires a clear sense of purpose , and in that oh-so-important category , The Four Feathers comes up short .
The thought of watching this film with an audience full of teenagers fixating on its body humour and reinforcement of stereotypes ( of which they 'll get plenty ) fills me with revulsion .
A grand fart coming from a director beginning to resemble someone 's crazy French grandfather .
No amount of nostalgia for Carvey 's glory days can disguise the fact that the new film is a lame kiddie flick and that Carvey 's considerable talents are wasted in it .
An artsploitation movie with too much exploitation and too little art .
The pacing is often way off and there are too many bona fide groaners among too few laughs .
is a mess .
Hypnotically dull , relentlessly downbeat , laughably predictable wail pitched to the cadence of a depressed fifteen-year-old 's suicidal poetry .
The movie is a dud .
Because the intelligence level of the characters must be low , very low , very very low , for the masquerade to work , the movie contains no wit , only labored gags .
It 's hard to imagine another director ever making his wife look so bad in a major movie .
After sitting through this sloppy , made-for-movie comedy special , it makes me wonder if Lawrence hates criticism so much that he refuses to evaluate his own work .
Loud , chaotic and largely unfunny .
There is no psychology here , and no real narrative logic -- just a series of carefully choreographed atrocities , which become strangely impersonal and abstract .
Bread , My Sweet has so many flaws it would be easy for critics to shred it .
The characters are so generic and the plot so bland that even as rogue CIA assassins working for Chris Cooper 's agency boss close in on the resourceful amnesiac , we do n't feel much for Damon/Bourne or his predicament .
If you enjoy being rewarded by a script that assumes you are n't very bright , then Blood Work is for you .
Any reasonably creative eighth-grader could have written a more credible script , though with the same number of continuity errors .
The script , the gags , the characters are all direct-to-video stuff , and that 's where this film should have remained .
As steamy as last week 's pork dumplings .
The somber pacing and lack of dramatic fireworks make Green Dragon seem more like medicine than entertainment .
Another wholly unnecessary addition to the growing , moldering pile of , well , extreme stunt pictures .
This strenuously unfunny Showtime deserves the hook .
Features nonsensical and laughable plotting , wooden performances , ineptly directed action sequences and some of the worst dialogue in recent memory .
Nothing about this movie works .
The film is like sitting in a downtown café , overhearing a bunch of typical late-twenty-somethings natter on about nothing , and desperately wishing you could change tables .
Not only does the thoroughly formulaic film represent totally exemplify middle-of-the-road mainstream , it also represents glossy Hollywood at its laziest .
A shame that Stealing Harvard is too busy getting in its own way to be anything but frustrating , boring , and forgettable .
Nearly every attempt at humor here is DOA .
A long , dull procession of despair , set to cello music culled from a minimalist funeral .
Call me a cold-hearted curmudgeon for not being able to enjoy a mindless action movie , but I believe a movie can be mindless without being the peak of all things insipid .
Priggish , lethargically paced parable of renewal .
but rather , ` How can you charge money for this ? '
Maybe you 'll be lucky , and there 'll be a power outage during your screening so you can get your money back .
For the rest of us , sitting through Dahmer 's two hours amounts to little more than punishment .
The movie 's ultimate point -- that everyone should be themselves -- is trite , but the screenwriter and director Michel Gondry restate it to the point of ridiculousness .
The satire is unfocused , while the story goes nowhere .
It 's mired in a shabby script that piles layer upon layer of Action Man cliché atop wooden dialogue and a shifting tone that falls far short of the peculiarly moral amorality of ( Woo 's ) best work .
If you 're over 25 , have an IQ over 90 , and have a driver 's license , you should be able to find better entertainment .
Crossroads feels like a teenybopper Ed Wood film , replete with the pubescent scandalous innuendo and the high-strung but flaccid drama .
It appears to have been made by people to whom the idea of narrative logic or cohesion is an entirely foreign concept .
The only problem is that , by the end , no one in the audience or the film seems to really care .
Due to stodgy , soap opera-ish dialogue , the rest of the cast comes across as stick figures reading lines from a TelePrompTer .
Nobody seems to have cared much about any aspect of it , from its cheesy screenplay to the grayish quality of its lighting to its last-minute , haphazard theatrical release .
A thoroughly awful movie -- dumb , narratively chaotic , visually sloppy ... a weird amalgam of ` The Thing ' and a geriatric ` Scream . '
Nothing sticks , really , except a lingering creepiness one feels from being dragged through a sad , sordid universe of guns , drugs , avarice and damaged dreams .
Guilty of the worst sin of attributable to a movie like this : it 's not scary in the slightest .
To say that this vapid vehicle is downright doltish and uneventful is just as obvious as telling a country skunk that he has severe body odor .
A film of empty , fetishistic violence in which murder is casual and fun .
A loud , witless mess that has none of the charm and little of the intrigue from the TV series .
Even on its own ludicrous terms , The Sum of All Fears generates little narrative momentum , and invites unflattering comparisons to other installments in the Ryan series .
As predictable as the outcome of a Globetrotters-Generals game , Juwanna Mann is even more ludicrous than you 'd expect from the guy-in-a-dress genre , and a personal low for everyone involved .
Rarely does a film so graceless and devoid of merit as this one come along .
... an incredibly heavy-handed , manipulative dud that feels all too familiar .
Madonna has made herself over so often now , there 's apparently nothing left to work with , sort of like Michael Jackson 's nose .
Never having seen the first two films in the series , I ca n't compare Friday After Next to them , but nothing would change the fact that what we have here is a load of clams left in the broiling sun for a good three days .
The story is lacking any real emotional impact , and the plot is both contrived and cliched .
A depraved , incoherent , instantly disposable piece of hackery .
It 's a bad action movie because there 's no rooting interest and the spectacle is grotesque and boring .
Highly uneven and inconsistent ... Margarita Happy Hour kinda resembles the el cheapo margaritas served within .
Very stupid and annoying .
The Sum of All Fears pretends to be a serious exploration of nuclear terrorism , but it 's really nothing more than warmed-over Cold War paranoia .
How inept is Serving Sara ?
It makes even Elizabeth Hurley seem graceless and ugly .
Lazy , miserable and smug .
This is one of the biggest disappointments of the year .
There 's no energy .
This is the kind of movie that you only need to watch for about thirty seconds before you say to yourself , ` Ah , yes , here we have a bad , bad , bad movie . '
There 's too much forced drama in this wildly uneven movie , about a young man 's battle with his inescapable past and uncertain future in a very shapable but largely unfulfilling present .
Not even Felinni would know what to make of this Italian freakshow .
It 's difficult to conceive of anyone who has reached puberty actually finding the characters in Slackers or their antics amusing , let alone funny .
Both shrill and soporific , and because everything is repeated five or six times , it can seem tiresomely simpleminded .
Neither revelatory nor truly edgy -- merely crassly flamboyant and comedically labored .
A preposterous , prurient whodunit .
... unlikable , uninteresting , unfunny , and completely , utterly inept .
The film is so busy making reference to other films and trying to be other films that it fails to have a heart , mind or humor of its own .
Muddled , melodramatic paranormal romance is an all-time low for Kevin Costner .
Just a bunch of good actors flailing around in a caper that 's neither original nor terribly funny .
It all unfolds predictably , and the adventures that happen along the way seem repetitive and designed to fill time , providing no real sense of suspense .
Run for your lives !
The acting is amateurish , the cinematography is atrocious , the direction is clumsy , the writing is insipid and the violence is at once luridly graphic and laughably unconvincing .
The slapstick is labored , and the bigger setpieces flat .
If ever such a dependable concept was botched in execution , this is it .
The picture emerges as a surprisingly anemic disappointment .
You 'll cry for your money back .
Slap me , I saw this movie .
Behind the glitz , Hollywood is sordid and disgusting .
So putrid it is not worth the price of the match that should be used to burn every print of the film .
In the end , the movie bogs down in insignificance , saying nothing about Kennedy 's assassination and revealing nothing about the pathology it pretends to investigate .
There 's only one way to kill Michael Myers for good : stop buying tickets to these movies .
The movie is about as humorous as watching your favorite pet get buried alive .
In other words , about as bad a film you 're likely to see all year .
This is absolutely and completely ridiculous and an insult to every family whose mother has suffered through the horrible pains of a death by cancer .
The whole thing feels like a ruse , a tactic to cover up the fact that the picture is constructed around a core of flimsy -- or , worse yet , nonexistent -- ideas .
What a stiflingly unfunny and unoriginal mess this is !
The innate theatrics that provide its thrills and extreme emotions lose their luster when flattened onscreen .
Despite all the closed-door hanky-panky , the film is essentially juiceless .
Aloof and lacks any real raw emotion , which is fatal for a film that relies on personal relationships .
What should have been a cutting Hollywood satire is instead about as fresh as last week 's issue of Variety .
Hey everybody , wanna watch a movie in which a guy dressed as a children 's party clown gets violently gang-raped ?
( T ) his slop does n't even have potential as a cult film , as it 's too loud to shout insults at the screen .
The movie 's plot is almost entirely witless and inane , carrying every gag two or three times beyond its limit to sustain a laugh .
A loud , ugly , irritating movie without any of its satirical salvos hitting a discernible target .
A movie version of a paint-by-numbers picture .
Unfunny and lacking any sense of commitment to or affection for its characters , the Reginald Hudlin comedy relies on toilet humor , ethnic slurs .
The actors improvise and scream their way around this movie directionless , lacking any of the rollicking dark humor so necessary to make this kind of idea work on screen .
Co-writer/director Jonathan Parker 's attempts to fashion a Brazil-like , hyper-real satire fall dreadfully short .
If there 's a heaven for bad movies , Deuces Wild is on its way .
What 's missing in Murder by Numbers is any real psychological grounding for the teens ' deviant behaviour .
Horrendously amateurish filmmaking that is plainly dull and visually ugly when it is n't incomprehensible .
Rob Schneider 's infantile cross-dressing routines fill The Hot Chick , the latest gimmick from this unimaginative comedian .
A horrible , 99-minute stink bomb .
The film is so bad it does n't improve upon the experience of staring at a blank screen .
Sheridan 's take on the author 's schoolboy memoir ... is a rather toothless take on a hard young life .
It jumps around with little logic or continuity , presenting backstage bytes of information that never amount to a satisfying complete picture of this particular , anciently demanding métier .
It 's dull , spiritless , silly and monotonous : an ultra-loud blast of pointless mayhem , going nowhere fast .
It 's hard to imagine that even very small children will be impressed by this tired retread .
It 's quite an achievement to set and shoot a movie at the Cannes Film Festival and yet fail to capture its visual appeal or its atmosphere .
Boll uses a lot of quick cutting and blurry step-printing to goose things up , but dopey dialogue and sometimes inadequate performances kill the effect .
It 's always disappointing when a documentary fails to live up to -- or offer any new insight into -- its chosen topic .
The kind of film that leaves you scratching your head in amazement over the fact that so many talented people could participate in such an ill-advised and poorly executed idea .
Nothing about the film -- with the possible exception of Elizabeth Hurley 's breasts -- is authentic .
Like many such biographical melodramas , it suffers from the awkwardness that results from adhering to the messiness of true stories .
There is nothing redeeming about this movie .
I was trying to decide what annoyed me most about God is Great ... I 'm Not , and then I realized that I just did n't care .
Derailed by bad writing and possibly also by some of that extensive post-production reworking to aim the film at young males in the throes of their first full flush of testosterone .
In all the annals of the movies , few films have been this odd , inexplicable and unpleasant .
There 's a scientific law to be discerned here that producers would be well to heed : Mediocre movies start to drag as soon as the action speeds up ; when the explosions start , they fall to pieces .
Unfortunately , One Hour Photo lives down to its title .
Thanks largely to Williams , all the interesting developments are processed in 60 minutes -- the rest is just an overexposed waste of film .
Cold , Sterile And Lacking Any Color Or Warmth .
One sloughs one 's way through the mire of this alleged psychological thriller in search of purpose or even a plot .
Would 've been nice if the screenwriters had trusted audiences to understand a complex story , and left off the film 's predictable denouement .
Nair just does n't have the necessary self-control to guide a loose , poorly structured film through the pitfalls of incoherence and redundancy .
What starts off as a possible Argentine American Beauty reeks like a room stacked with pungent flowers .
The project 's filmmakers forgot to include anything even halfway scary as they poorly rejigger Fatal Attraction into a high school setting .
Stitch is a bad mannered , ugly and destructive little **** .
No cute factor here ... Not that I mind ugly ; the problem is he has no character , loveable or otherwise .
Deep down , I realized the harsh reality of my situation : I would leave the theater with a lower I.Q. than when I had entered .
Aside from the fact that the film idiotically uses the website feardotcom.com or the improperly hammy performance from poor Stephen Rea , the film gets added disdain for the fact that it is nearly impossible to look at or understand .
For its 100 minutes running time , you 'll wait in vain for a movie to happen .
A work that lacks both a purpose and a strong pulse .
It 's a road-trip drama with too many wrong turns .
It might not be 1970s animation , but everything else about it is straight from the Saturday morning cartoons -- a retread story , bad writing , and the same old silliness .
A chilly , remote , emotionally distant piece ... so dull that its tagline should be : ` In space , no one can hear you snore . '
This would-be ` James Bond for the Extreme Generation ' pic is one big , dumb action movie .
It 's a terrible movie in every regard , and utterly painful to watch .
This is rote spookiness , with nary an original idea ( or role , or edit , or score , or anything , really ) in sight , and the whole of the proceedings beg the question ` Why ? '
Distinctly sub-par ... more likely to drown a viewer in boredom than to send any shivers down his spine .
Plays like a bad blend of an overripe episode of TV 's Dawson 's Creek and a recycled and dumbed-down version of Love Story .
No film could possibly be more contemptuous of the single female population .
A low-budget affair , Tadpole was shot on digital video , and the images often look smeary and blurry , to the point of distraction .
Then again , in a better movie , you might not have noticed .
What might have emerged as hilarious lunacy in the hands of Woody Allen or Mel Brooks ( at least during their '70s heyday ) comes across as lame and sophomoric in this debut indie feature .
It ends up being neither , and fails at both endeavors .
Purposefully shocking in its eroticized gore , if unintentionally dull in its lack of poetic frissons .
One ca n't shake the feeling that Crossroads is nothing more than an hour-and-a-half-long commercial for Britney 's latest album .
What little atmosphere is generated by the shadowy lighting , macabre sets , and endless rain is offset by the sheer ugliness of everything else .
Tartakovsky 's team has some freakish powers of visual charm , but the five writers slip into the modern rut of narrative banality .
The most horrific movie experience I 've had since `` Ca n't Stop The Music . ''
It may as well be called `` Jar-Jar Binks : The Movie . ''
It 's that painful .
A ` Girls Gone Wild ' video for the boho art-house crowd , The Burning Sensation is n't a definitive counter-cultural document -- its makers are n't removed and inquisitive enough for that .
You may be galled that you 've wasted nearly two hours of your own precious life with this silly little puddle of a movie .
A smug and convoluted action-comedy that does n't allow an earnest moment to pass without reminding audiences that it 's only a movie .
Worthless , from its pseudo-rock-video opening to the idiocy of its last frames .
After Collateral Damage , you might imagine that most every aggrieved father cliché has been unturned .
Ultimately the , yes , snail-like pacing and lack of thematic resonance make the film more silly than scary , like some sort of Martha Stewart decorating program run amok .
Bray is completely at sea ; with nothing but a Savage Garden music video on his resume , he has no clue about making a movie .
a huge disappointment coming , as it does , from filmmakers and performers of this calibre
The story is bogus and its characters tissue-thin .
Most of the dialogue made me want to pack raw dough in my ears .
turns a potentially interesting idea into an excruciating film school experience that plays better only for the film 's publicists or for people who take as many drugs as the film 's characters
High Crimes is a cinematic misdemeanor , a routine crime thriller remarkable only for its lack of logic and misuse of two fine actors , Morgan Freeman and Ashley Judd .
A dull , somnambulant exercise in pretension whose pervasive quiet is broken by frequent outbursts of violence and noise .
It recycles every cliché about gays in what is essentially an extended soap opera .
It aimlessly and unsuccessfully attempts to fuse at least three dull plots into one good one .
Personally , I 'd rather watch them on the Animal Planet .
All of the filmmakers ' calculations ca n't rescue Brown Sugar from the curse of blandness .
... post-September 11 , `` The Sum Of All Fears '' seems more tacky and reprehensible , manipulating our collective fear without bestowing the subject with the intelligence or sincerity it unequivocally deserves .
The exclamation point seems to be the only bit of glee you 'll find in this dreary mess .
Godard 's ode to tackling life 's wonderment is a rambling and incoherent manifesto about the vagueness of topical excess ... In Praise of Love remains a ponderous and pretentious endeavor that 's unfocused and tediously exasperating .
Humorless , self-conscious art drivel , made without a glimmer of intelligence or invention .
The movie 's progression into rambling incoherence gives new meaning to the phrase ` fatal script error . '
It 's horribly depressing and not very well done .
And it 's a lousy one at that .
It is n't quite one of the worst movies of the year .
It 's just merely very bad .
In my own very humble opinion , In Praise of Love lacks even the most fragmented charms I have found in almost all of his previous works .
Muddled , simplistic and more than a little pretentious .
If there was any doubt that Peter O'Fallon did n't have an original bone in his body , A Rumor of Angels should dispel it .
This pathetic junk is barely an hour long .
It is n't that Stealing Harvard is a horrible movie -- if only it were that grand a failure !
The leads are so unmemorable , despite several attempts at lengthy dialogue scenes , that one eventually resents having to inhale this gutter romancer 's secondhand material .
Staggers between flaccid satire and what is supposed to be madcap farce .
Like life on the island , the movie grows boring despite the scenery .
Chalk it up as the worst kind of hubristic folly .
It 's the kind of under-inspired , overblown enterprise that gives Hollywood sequels a bad name .
Apparently , romantic comedy with a fresh point of view just does n't figure in the present Hollywood program .
Depressingly thin and exhaustingly contrived .
On its icy face , the new film is a subzero version of Monsters , Inc. , without the latter 's imagination , visual charm or texture .
It 's a barely tolerable slog over well-trod ground .
Epps has neither the charisma nor the natural affability that has made Tucker a star .
A dull , dumb and derivative horror film .
A laughable -- or rather , unlaughable -- excuse for a film .
It 's so devoid of joy and energy it makes even Jason X ... look positively Shakesperean by comparison .
One of the worst films of 2002 .
This movie is about the worst thing Chan has done in the United States .
This ludicrous film is predictable at every turn .
An incredibly irritating comedy about thoroughly vacuous people ... manages to embody the worst excesses of nouvelle vague without any of its sense of fun or energy .
The film desperately sinks further and further into comedy futility .
Instead of a balanced film that explains the zeitgeist that is the X Games , we get a cinematic postcard that 's superficial and unrealized .
A woefully dull , redundant concept that bears more than a whiff of exploitation , despite Iwai 's vaunted empathy .
If you really want to understand what this story is really all about , you 're far better served by the source material .
A summary of the plot does n't quite do justice to the awfulness of the movie , for that comes through all too painfully in the execution .
Every conceivable mistake a director could make in filming opera has been perpetrated here .
Interminably bleak , to say nothing of boring .
The action scenes have all the suspense of a 20-car pileup , while the plot holes are big enough for a train car to drive through -- if Kaos had n't blown them all up .
A ragbag of cliches .
The three leads produce adequate performances , but what 's missing from this material is any depth of feeling .
It 's possible that something hip and transgressive was being attempted here that stubbornly refused to gel , but the result is more puzzling than unsettling .
This painfully unfunny farce traffics in tired stereotypes and encumbers itself with complications ... that have no bearing on the story .
What more can be expected from a college comedy that 's target audience has n't graduated from junior high school ?
The plan to make Enough into ` an inspiring tale of survival wrapped in the heart-pounding suspense of a stylish psychological thriller ' has flopped as surely as a soufflé gone wrong .
Instead of letting the laughs come as they may , Lawrence unleashes his trademark misogyny -- er , comedy -- like a human volcano or an overflowing septic tank , take your pick .
We do n't get paid enough to sit through crap like this .
Even by the intentionally low standards of frat-boy humor , Sorority Boys is a bowser .
Weighted down with slow , uninvolving storytelling and flat acting .
We ca n't accuse Kung Pow for misfiring , since it is exactly what it wants to be : an atrociously , mind-numbingly , indescribably bad movie .
There is n't one moment in the film that surprises or delights .
This movie , a certain scene in particular , brought me uncomfortably close to losing my lunch .
The secrets of time travel will have been discovered , indulged in and rejected as boring before I see this piece of crap again .
( Creates ) the worst kind of mythologizing , the kind that sacrifices real heroism and abject suffering for melodrama .
The movie resolutely avoids all the comic possibilities of its situation , and becomes one more dumb high school comedy about sex gags and prom dates .
An exercise in cynicism every bit as ugly as the shabby digital photography and muddy sound .
The movie is silly beyond comprehension , and even if it were n't silly , it would still be beyond comprehension .
The film has a nearly terminal case of the cutes , and it 's neither as funny nor as charming as it thinks it is .
It 's a frightful vanity film that , no doubt , pays off what debt Miramax felt they owed to Benigni .
It makes me say the obvious : Abandon all hope of a good movie ye who enter here .
A listless sci-fi comedy in which Eddie Murphy deploys two guises and elaborate futuristic sets to no particularly memorable effect .
A generic bloodbath that often becomes laughably unbearable when it is n't merely offensive .
An unholy mess , driven by the pathetic idea that if you shoot something on crummy-looking videotape , it must be labelled ` hip ' , ` innovative ' and ` realistic ' .
The story 's pathetic and the gags are puerile . .
So bland and utterly forgettable that it might as well have been titled Generic Jennifer Lopez Romantic Comedy .
I still want my money back .
With little visible talent and no energy , Colin Hanks is in bad need of major acting lessons and maybe a little coffee .
Coarse , cliched and clunky , this trifling romantic comedy in which opposites attract for no better reason than that the screenplay demands it squanders the charms of stars Hugh Grant and Sandra Bullock .
Anyone who suffers through this film deserves , at the very least , a big box of consolation candy .
Collapses after 30 minutes into a slap-happy series of adolescent violence .
The following things are not at all entertaining : The bad sound , the lack of climax and , worst of all , watching Seinfeld ( who is also one of the film 's producers ) do everything he can to look like a good guy .
Obvious , obnoxious and didactic burlesque .
The most surprising thing about this film is that they are actually releasing it into theaters .
Most of the movie is so deadly dull that watching the proverbial paint dry would be a welcome improvement .
McKay shows crushingly little curiosity about , or is ill-equipped to examine , the interior lives of the characters in his film , much less incorporate them into his narrative .
You begin to long for the end credits as the desert does for rain .
Unfunny comedy with a lot of static set ups , not much camera movement , and most of the scenes take place indoors in formal settings with motionless characters .
An unremittingly ugly movie to look at , listen to , and think about , it is quite possibly the sturdiest example yet of why the DV revolution has cheapened the artistry of making a film .
There are cheesy backdrops , ridiculous action sequences , and many tired jokes about men in heels .
Just dreadful .
I do n't blame Eddie Murphy but should n't Owen Wilson know a movie must have a story and a script ?
This is just lazy writing .
But the 2002 film does n't really believe in it , and breaks the mood with absurdly inappropriate ` comedy ' scenes .
The problem is that for the most part , the film is deadly dull .
Here , alas , it collapses like an overcooked soufflé .
`` Sorority Boys '' was funnier , and that movie was pretty bad .
Certain to be distasteful to children and adults alike , Eight Crazy Nights is a total misfire .
This Tuxedo ... should have been sent back to the tailor for some major alterations .
What 's most offensive is n't the waste of a good cast , but the film 's denial of sincere grief and mourning in favor of bogus spiritualism .
Sunk by way too much indulgence of scene-chewing , teeth-gnashing actorliness .
None of this sounds promising and , indeed , the first half of Sorority Boys is as appalling as any ` comedy ' to ever spill from a projector 's lens .
` Punch-Drunk Love is so convinced of its own brilliance that , if it were a person , you 'd want to smash its face in . '
A crass and insulting homage to great films like Some Like It Hot and the John Wayne classics .
Loud , silly , stupid and pointless .
You 'll find yourself wishing that you and they were in another movie .
A yawn-provoking little farm melodrama .
As David Letterman and The Onion have proven , the worst of tragedies can be fertile sources of humor , but Lawrence has only a fleeting grasp of how to develop them .
`` Abandon '' will leave you wanting to abandon the theater .
director Hoffman , his writer and Kline 's agent should serve detention
I 'm not sure which will take longer to heal : the welt on Johnny Knoxville 's stomach from a riot-control projectile or my own tortured psyche .
I 'm not sure which is worse : the poor acting by the ensemble cast , the flat dialogue by Vincent R. Nebrida or the gutless direction by Laurice Guillen .
The Irwins ' scenes are fascinating ; the movie as a whole is cheap junk and an insult to their death-defying efforts .
This is one baaaaaaaaad movie .
The whole mess boils down to a transparently hypocritical work that feels as though it 's trying to set the women 's liberation movement back 20 years . '
More of the same old garbage Hollywood has been trying to pass off as acceptable teen entertainment for some time now .
It 's as sorry a mess as its director 's diabolical debut , Mad Cows .
Unspeakable , of course , barely begins to describe the plot and its complications .
Vulgar is too optimistic a title .
Even as I valiantly struggled to remain interested , or at least conscious , I could feel my eyelids ... getting ... very ... heavy ...
A bad movie that happened to good actors .
Oversexed , at times overwrought comedy/drama that offers little insight into the experience of being forty , female and single .
That such a horrible movie could have sprung from such a great one is one of the year 's worst cinematic tragedies .
Rarely has a film 's title served such dire warning .
For dance completists only .
Spreads itself too thin , leaving these actors , as well as the members of the commune , short of profound characterizations
I liked the original short story but this movie , even at an hour and twenty-some minutes , it 's too long and it goes nowhere .
This little film is so slovenly done , so primitive in technique , that it ca n't really be called animation .
Makes 98 minutes feel like three hours .
The title , alone , should scare any sane person away .
It 's crap on a leash -- far too polite to scale the lunatic heights of Joe Dante 's similarly styled Gremlins .
A loud , brash and mainly unfunny high school comedy .
The movie is so resolutely cobbled together out of older movies that it even uses a totally unnecessary prologue , just because it seems obligatory .
Maid in Manhattan proves that it 's easier to change the sheets than to change hackneyed concepts when it comes to dreaming up romantic comedies .
... about as exciting to watch as two last-place basketball teams playing one another on the final day of the season .
Cruel and inhuman cinematic punishment ... simultaneously degrades its characters , its stars and its audience .
Becomes a bit of a mishmash : a tearjerker that does n't and a thriller that wo n't .
The entire movie is in need of a scented bath .
The story of Trouble Every Day ... is so sketchy it amounts to little more than preliminary notes for a science-fiction horror film , and the movie 's fragmentary narrative style makes piecing the story together frustrating difficult .
For all of its insights into the dream world of teen life , and its electronic expression through cyber culture , the film gives no quarter to anyone seeking to pull a cohesive story out of its 2 1/2 - hour running time .
The performances are so overstated , the effect comes off as self-parody .
Stale and clichéd to a fault .
It 's just rather leaden and dull .
Dismally dull sci-fi comedy .
There 's surely something wrong with a comedy where the only belly laughs come from the selection of outtakes tacked onto the end credits .
Even a hardened voyeur would require the patience of Job to get through this interminable , shapeless documentary about the swinging subculture .
The logic of it all will be Greek to anyone not predisposed to the movie 's rude and crude humor .
Starts out strongly before quickly losing its focus , point and purpose in a mess of mixed messages , over-blown drama and Bruce Willis with a scar .
After that it becomes long and tedious like a classroom play in a college history course .
Director Jay Russell weighs down his capricious fairy-tale with heavy sentiment and lightweight meaning .
At times , it actually hurts to watch .
The movie is the equivalent of French hip-hop , which also seems to play on a 10-year delay .
I 've never seen ( a remake ) do anything as stomach-turning as the way Adam Sandler 's new movie rapes , pillages and incinerates Frank Capra 's classic ...
There is nothing funny in this every-joke-has - been-told-a - thousand-times - before movie .
This is standard crime drama fare ... instantly forgettable and thoroughly dull .
Rarely has sex on screen been so aggressively anti-erotic .
A dull , inconsistent , dishonest female bonding picture .
It 's as if a bored Cage spent the duration of the film 's shooting schedule waiting to scream : `` Got AIDS yet ? ''
The script was reportedly rewritten a dozen times -- either 11 times too many or else too few .
This is a movie filled with unlikable , spiteful idiots ; whether or not their friendship is salvaged makes no difference in the least .
The film rehashes several old themes and is capped with pointless extremes -- it 's insanely violent and very graphic .
Sorority Boys , which is as bad at it is cruel , takes every potential laugh and stiletto-stomps the life out of it .
Sheridan is painfully bad , a fourth-rate Jim Carrey who does n't understand the difference between dumb fun and just plain dumb .
Was that movie nothing more than a tepid exercise in trotting out a formula that worked five years ago but has since lost its fizz ?
It goes on for too long and bogs down in a surfeit of characters and unnecessary subplots .
` In this poor remake of such a well loved classic , Parker exposes the limitations of his skill and the basic flaws in his vision . '
I found it slow , predictable and not very amusing .
Viewers will need all the luck they can muster just figuring out who 's who in this pretentious mess .
Get out your pooper-scoopers .
Sheridan seems terrified of the book 's irreverent energy , and scotches most of its élan , humor , bile , and irony .
If this is cinema , I pledge allegiance to Cagney and Lacey .
It appears as if even the filmmakers did n't know what kind of movie they were making .
Beneath the uncanny , inevitable and seemingly shrewd facade of movie-biz farce ... lies a plot cobbled together from largely flat and uncreative moments .
Starts out mediocre , spirals downward , and thuds to the bottom of the pool with an utterly incompetent conclusion .
There 's not a comedic moment in this romantic comedy .
Poor Ben Bratt could n't find stardom if MapQuest emailed him point-to-point driving directions .
An empty , purposeless exercise .
Haneke 's script ( from Elfriede Jelinek 's novel ) is contrived , unmotivated , and psychologically unpersuasive , with an inconclusive ending .
This picture is murder by numbers , and as easy to be bored by as your ABC 's , despite a few whopping shootouts .
A dull , simple-minded and stereotypical tale of drugs , death and mind-numbing indifference on the inner-city streets .
Master of Disguise runs for only 71 minutes and feels like three hours .
Suffers from unlikable characters and a self-conscious sense of its own quirky hipness .
Tykwer 's surface flash is n't just a poor fit with Kieslowski 's lyrical pessimism ; it completely contradicts everything Kieslowski 's work aspired to , including the condition of art .
What ensues are much blood-splattering , mass drug-induced bowel evacuations , and none-too-funny commentary on the cultural distinctions between Americans and Brits .
You expect more from director Michael Apted ( Enigma ) and screenwriter Nicholas Kazan ( Reversal of Fortune ) than this cliche pileup .
Of all the Halloween 's , this is the most visually unappealing .
... feels as if ( there 's ) a choke leash around your neck so director Nick Cassavetes can give it a good , hard yank whenever he wants you to feel something .
Attal pushes too hard to make this a comedy or serious drama .
A wishy-washy melodramatic movie that shows us plenty of sturm und drung , but explains its characters ' decisions only unsatisfactorily .
This 90-minute dud could pass for Mike Tyson 's E !
This is surely one of the most frantic , virulent and foul-natured Christmas season pics ever delivered by a Hollywood studio .
Once the expectation of laughter has been quashed by whatever obscenity is at hand , even the funniest idea is n't funny .
A depressingly retrograde , ` post-feminist ' romantic comedy that takes an astonishingly condescending attitude toward women .
The Sweetest Thing leaves a bitter taste .
In a big corner office in Hell , Satan is throwing up his hands in surrender , is firing his R&D people , and has decided he will just screen The Master of Disguise 24/7 .
A thriller without a lot of thrills .
This stuck pig of a movie flails limply between bizarre comedy and pallid horror .
Done in mostly by a weak script that ca n't support the epic treatment .
No French people were harmed during the making of this movie , but they were insulted and the audience was put through torture for an hour and a half .
An unfortunate title for a film that has nothing endearing about it .
Comes off as a long , laborious whine , the bellyaching of a paranoid and unlikable man .
Hopelessly inane , humorless and under-inspired .
If I could have looked into my future and saw how bad this movie was , I would go back and choose to skip it .
This one aims for the toilet and scores a direct hit .
Dull , a road-trip movie that 's surprisingly short of both adventure and song .
After several scenes of this tacky nonsense , you 'll be wistful for the testosterone-charged wizardry of Jerry Bruckheimer productions , especially because Half Past Dead is like The Rock on a Wal-Mart budget .
The Country Bears wastes an exceptionally good idea .
But the movie that does n't really deliver for country music fans or for family audiences
... you can be forgiven for realizing that you 've spent the past 20 minutes looking at your watch and waiting for Frida to just die already .
The Master of Disguise is awful .
It 's Pauly Shore awful .
The movie is concocted and carried out by folks worthy of scorn , and the nicest thing I can say is that I ca n't remember a single name responsible for it .
You ca n't believe anyone would really buy this stuff .
It desperately wants to be a wacky , screwball comedy , but the most screwy thing here is how so many talented people were convinced to waste their time .
From the choppy editing to the annoying score to ` special effects ' by way of replacing objects in a character 's hands below the camera line , `` Besotted '' is misbegotten
Alas , getting there is not even half the interest .
The film is all over the place , really .
Forages for audience sympathy like a temperamental child begging for attention , giving audiences no reason to truly care for its decrepit freaks beyond the promise of a reprieve from their incessant whining .
Burns ' fifth beer-soaked film feels in almost every possible way -- from the writing and direction to the soggy performances -- tossed off .
Another boorish movie from the I-heard-a-joke - at-a-frat-party school of screenwriting .
It 's hard to understand why anyone in his right mind would even think to make the attraction a movie .
And it 's harder still to believe that anyone in his right mind would want to see the it .
Why sit through a crummy , wannabe-hip crime comedy that refers incessantly to old movies , when you could just rent those movies instead , let alone seek out a respectable new one ?
The obnoxious special effects , the obligatory outbursts of flatulence and the incessant , so-five-minutes-ago pop music on the soundtrack overwhelm what is left of the scruffy , dopey old Hanna-Barbera charm .
Press the delete key .
There 's no disguising this as one of the worst films of the summer .
Lacks the spirit of the previous two , and makes all those jokes about hos and even more unmentionable subjects seem like mere splashing around in the muck .
This hastily mounted production exists only to capitalize on Hopkins ' inclination to play Hannibal Lecter again , even though Harris has no immediate inclination to provide a fourth book .
The threat implied in the title Pokémon 4ever is terrifying -- like locusts in a horde these things will keep coming .
To call this film a lump of coal would only be to flatter it .
But ticket-buyers with great expectations will wind up as glum as Mr. De Niro .
Fails in making this character understandable , in getting under her skin , in exploring motivation ... Well before the end , the film grows as dull as its characters , about whose fate it is hard to care .
It 's a shame that the storyline and its underlying themes ... finally seem so impersonal or even shallow .
It 's supposed to be post-feminist breezy but ends up as tedious as the chatter of parrots raised on Oprah .
A rip-off twice removed , modeled after ( Seagal 's ) earlier copycat Under Siege , sometimes referred to as Die Hard on a boat .
Totally overwrought , deeply biased , and wholly designed to make you feel guilty about ignoring what the filmmakers clearly believe are The Greatest Musicians of All Time .
You can practically hear George Orwell turning over .
Lazy filmmaking , with the director taking a hands-off approach when he should have shaped the story to show us why it 's compelling .
If it were any more of a turkey , it would gobble in Dolby Digital stereo .
The film 's trailer also looked like crap , so crap is what I was expecting .
The movie is almost completely lacking in suspense , surprise and consistent emotional conviction .
Festers in just such a dungpile that you 'd swear you were watching monkeys flinging their feces at you .
Does n't deserve a passing grade ( even on a curve ) .
The pacing is deadly , the narration helps little and Naipaul , a juicy writer , is negated .
( Lee ) treats his audience the same way that Jim Brown treats his women -- as dumb , credulous , unassuming , subordinate subjects .
There 's not one decent performance from the cast and not one clever line of dialogue .
No amount of burning , blasting , stabbing , and shooting can hide a weak script .
We started to wonder if ... some unpaid intern had just typed ` Chris Rock , ' ` Anthony Hopkins ' and ` terrorists ' into some Univac-like script machine .
Bears is even worse than I imagined a movie ever could be .
When you find yourself rooting for the monsters in a horror movie , you know the picture is in trouble .
Marinated in clichés and mawkish dialogue .
But this new jangle of noise , mayhem and stupidity must be a serious contender for the title .
Rollerball IS as bad as you think , and worse than you can imagine .
We assume he had a bad run in the market or a costly divorce , because there is no earthly reason other than money why this distinguished actor would stoop so low .
With a completely predictable plot , you 'll swear that you 've seen it all before , even if you 've never come within a mile of The Longest Yard .
This movie plays like an extended dialogue exercise in Retard 101 .
What we get in FearDotCom is more like something from a bad Clive Barker movie .
In other words , it 's badder than bad .
Feels more like a rejected X-Files episode than a credible account of a puzzling real-life happening .
Men in Black II achieves ultimate insignificance -- it 's the sci-fi comedy spectacle as Whiffle-Ball epic .
A zombie movie in every sense of the word -- mindless , lifeless , meandering , loud , painful , obnoxious .
It does n't take a rocket scientist to figure out that this is a Mormon family movie , and a sappy , preachy one at that .
It appears to have been modeled on the worst revenge-of-the-nerds clichés the filmmakers could dredge up .
While the story is better-focused than the incomprehensible Anne Rice novel it 's based upon , Queen Of The Damned is a pointless , meandering celebration of the goth-vampire , tortured woe-is-me lifestyle .
A tired , predictable , bordering on offensive , waste of time , money and celluloid .
If Hill is n't quite his generation 's Don Siegel ( or Robert Aldrich ) , it 's because there 's no discernible feeling beneath the chest hair ; it 's all bluster and cliché .
Stealing Harvard will dip into your wallet , swipe 90 minutes of your time , and offer you precisely this in recompense : A few early laughs scattered around a plot as thin as it is repetitious .
` Martin Lawrence Live ' is so self-pitying , I almost expected there to be a collection taken for the comedian at the end of the show .
Hate it because it 's lousy .
Like a bad improvisation exercise , the superficially written characters ramble on tediously about their lives , loves and the art they 're struggling to create .
Disgusting .
Without any redeeming value whatsoever .
This thing is virtually unwatchable .
Feel free to go get popcorn whenever he 's not onscreen .
The main characters are simply named The Husband , The Wife and The Kidnapper , emphasizing the disappointingly generic nature of the entire effort .
In terms of execution this movie is careless and unfocused .
Swims in mediocrity , sticking its head up for a breath of fresh air now and then .
The characters ... are paper-thin , and their personalities undergo radical changes when it suits the script .
- spy action flick with Antonio Banderas and Lucy Liu never comes together .
A so-so , made-for-TV something posing as a real movie .
Time literally stops on a dime in the tries-so-hard-to-be-cool `` Clockstoppers , '' but that does n't mean it still wo n't feel like the longest 90 minutes of your movie-going life .
Gaping plot holes sink this ` sub ' - standard thriller and drag audience enthusiasm to crush depth .
What a great shame that such a talented director as Chen Kaige has chosen to make his English-language debut with a film so poorly plotted and scripted .
No amount of good intentions is able to overcome the triviality of the story .
The nonstop artifice ultimately proves tiresome , with the surface histrionics failing to compensate for the paper-thin characterizations and facile situations .
Koepp 's screenplay is n't nearly surprising or clever enough to sustain a reasonable degree of suspense on its own .
Clumsy , obvious , preposterous , the movie will likely set the cause of woman warriors back decades .
Rather , pity anyone who sees this mishmash .
A banal , virulently unpleasant excuse for a romantic comedy .
A dim-witted and lazy spin-off of the Animal Planet documentary series , Crocodile Hunter is entertainment opportunism at its most glaring .
Sade achieves the near-impossible : It turns the Marquis de Sade into a dullard .
Unfortunately , the experience of actually watching the movie is less compelling than the circumstances of its making .
It should be doing a lot of things , but does n't .
Soulless and -- even more damning -- virtually joyless , XXX achieves near virtuosity in its crapulence .
All the Queen 's Men is a throwback war movie that fails on so many levels , it should pay reparations to viewers .
If you go , pack your knitting needles .
The lead actors share no chemistry or engaging charisma .
Some writer dude , I think his name was , uh , Michael Zaidan , was supposed to have like written the screenplay or something , but , dude , the only thing that I ever saw that was written down were the zeroes on my paycheck .
It is dark , brooding and slow , and takes its central idea way too seriously .
A period story about a Catholic boy who tries to help a Jewish friend get into heaven by sending the audience straight to hell .
The premise itself is just SOOOOO tired .
Pair that with really poor comedic writing ... and you 've got a huge mess .
Each scene immediately succumbs to gravity and plummets to earth .
Less funny than it should be and less funny than it thinks it is .
An awful movie that will only satisfy the most emotionally malleable of filmgoers .
... the story is far-flung , illogical , and plain stupid .
The very simple story seems too simple and the working out of the plot almost arbitrary .
( Hell is ) looking down at your watch and realizing Serving Sara is n't even halfway through .
Swiftly deteriorates into a terribly obvious melodrama and rough-hewn vanity project for lead actress Andie MacDowell .
You have no affinity for most of the characters .
An inept , tedious spoof of '70s kung fu pictures , it contains almost enough chuckles for a three-minute sketch , and no more .
You 'll just have your head in your hands wondering why Lee 's character did n't just go to a bank manager and save everyone the misery .
Movies like High Crimes flog the dead horse of surprise as if it were an obligation .
How about surprising us by trying something new ?
Final verdict : You 've seen it all before .
Further sad evidence that Tom Tykwer , director of the resonant and sense-spinning Run Lola Run , has turned out to be a one-trick pony -- a maker of softheaded metaphysical claptrap .
You 'll trudge out of the theater feeling as though you rode the Zipper after eating a corn dog and an extra-large cotton candy .
A full-frontal attack on audience patience .
Too bad none of it is funny .
... in the pile of useless actioners from MTV schmucks who do n't know how to tell a story for more than four minutes .
In addition to sporting one of the worst titles in recent cinematic history , Ballistic : Ecks Vs. Sever also features terrible , banal dialogue ; convenient , hole-ridden plotting ; superficial characters and a rather dull , unimaginative car chase .
You can not guess why the cast and crew did n't sign a pact to burn the negative and the script and pretend the whole thing never existed .
A word of advice to the makers of The Singles Ward : Celebrity cameos do not automatically equal laughs .
Manipulative claptrap , a period-piece movie-of-the-week , plain old blarney ... take your pick .
Does n't come close to justifying the hype that surrounded its debut at the Sundance Film Festival two years ago .
The plot is paper-thin and the characters are n't interesting enough to watch them go about their daily activities for two whole hours .
... Blade II is still top-heavy with blazing guns , cheatfully filmed martial arts , disintegrating bloodsucker computer effects and jagged camera moves that serve no other purpose than to call attention to themselves .
Feels strangely hollow at its emotional core .
Characterisation has been sacrificed for the sake of spectacle .
If that does n't clue you in that something 's horribly wrong , nothing will .
It 's difficult to imagine that a more confused , less interesting and more sloppily made film could possibly come down the road in 2002 .
Like the Tuck family themselves , this movie just goes on and on and on and on
As pedestrian as they come .
It 's a feel-bad ending for a depressing story that throws a bunch of hot-button items in the viewer 's face and asks to be seen as hip , winking social commentary .
Very much a home video , and so devoid of artifice and purpose that it appears not to have been edited at all .
The attempt to build up a pressure cooker of horrified awe emerges from the simple fact that the movie has virtually nothing to show .
A cellophane-pop remake of the punk classic Ladies and Gentlemen , The Fabulous Stains ... Crossroads is never much worse than bland or better than inconsequential .
It 's tough to be startled when you 're almost dozing .
A terrible movie that some people will nevertheless find moving .
There are many definitions of ` time waster ' but this movie must surely be one of them .
Stupid , infantile , redundant , sloppy , over-the-top , and amateurish .
The worst film of the year .
... a movie that , quite simply , should n't have been made .
I ca n't recommend it .
It sucked .
What we have is a character faced with the possibility that her life is meaningless , vapid and devoid of substance , in a movie that is definitely meaningless , vapid and devoid of substance .
Does n't add up to much .
One of the worst movies of the year .
Long before it 's over , you 'll be thinking of 51 ways to leave this loser .
One of the worst movies of the year .
Idiotic and ugly .
... hypnotically dull .
Thoroughly awful .
Truly terrible .
Bad movie .
Just plain bad .
( A ) soulless , stupid sequel ...
Execrable .
Banal and predictable .
Brisk hack job .
... bibbidy-bobbidi-bland .
... a pretentious mess ...
( A ) rather thinly-conceived movie .
Cinematic poo .
A dreary movie .
Pompous and garbled .
Utter mush ... conceited pap .
... overly melodramatic ...
Extremely bad .
Sluggish , tonally uneven .
Generic thriller junk .
What an embarrassment .
... irritating soul-searching garbage .
A relative letdown .
Aggravating and tedious .
under-rehearsed and lifeless
Laughably , irredeemably awful .
An awful snooze .
A less-than-thrilling thriller .
Black-and-white and unrealistic .
Dramatically lackluster .
Stay away .
... a pretentious mess ...
Predictably soulless techno-tripe .
A half-assed film .
Abysmally pathetic
... unbearably lame .
( L ) ame and unnecessary .
( A ) crushing disappointment .
A major waste ... generic .
Boring and meandering .
A lame comedy .
Terrible .
Degenerates into hogwash .
Crummy .
Amazingly lame .
( A ) poorly executed comedy .
... really horrible drek .
Rashomon-for-dipsticks tale .
Staggeringly dreadful romance .
A real snooze .
Her fans walked out muttering words like `` horrible '' and `` terrible , '' but had so much fun dissing the film that they did n't mind the ticket cost .
Here 's yet another studio horror franchise mucking up its storyline with glitches casual fans could correct in their sleep .
Ultimately feels empty and unsatisfying , like swallowing a Communion wafer without the wine .
Suffers from the lack of a compelling or comprehensible narrative .
But it 's too long and too convoluted and it ends in a muddle .
It 's like watching a nightmare made flesh .
If the first Men in Black was money , the second is small change .
If there 's one thing this world needs less of , it 's movies about college that are written and directed by people who could n't pass an entrance exam .
In its best moments , resembles a bad high school production of Grease , without benefit of song .
Taylor appears to have blown his entire budget on soundtrack rights and had nothing left over for jokes .
It all drags on so interminably it 's like watching a miserable relationship unfold in real time .
( T ) here 's only so much anyone can do with a florid , overplotted , Anne Rice rock 'n' roll vampire novel before the built-in silliness of the whole affair defeats them .
I got a headache watching this meaningless downer .
No way I can believe this load of junk .
It 's dumb , but more importantly , it 's just not scary .
There is no pleasure in watching a child suffer .
Just embarrassment and a vague sense of shame .
When the film ended , I felt tired and drained and wanted to lie on my own deathbed for a while .
The film 's hackneyed message is not helped by the thin characterizations , nonexistent plot and pretentious visual style .
The Iditarod lasts for days - this just felt like it did .
It feels like an after-school special gussied up with some fancy special effects , and watching its rote plot points connect is about as exciting as gazing at an egg timer for 93 minutes .
Why make a documentary about these marginal historical figures ?
I had to look away - this was god awful .
Involves two mysteries -- one it gives away and the other featuring such badly drawn characters that its outcome hardly matters .
An unclassifiably awful study in self - and audience-abuse .
This movie is something of an impostor itself , stretching and padding its material in a blur of dead ends and distracting camera work .
This one is definitely one to skip , even for horror movie fanatics .
It takes a strange kind of laziness to waste the talents of Robert Forster , Anne Meara , Eugene Levy , and Reginald VelJohnson all in the same movie .
Expect the same-old , lame-old slasher nonsense , just with different scenery .
Try as I may , I ca n't think of a single good reason to see this movie , even though everyone in my group extemporaneously shouted , ` Thank you ! '
It treats women like idiots .
The experience of going to a film festival is a rewarding one ; the experiencing of sampling one through this movie is not .
Almost gags on its own gore .
How do you spell cliché ?
The moviegoing equivalent of going to a dinner party and being forced to watch the host and hostess 's home video of their baby 's birth .
Too much of it feels unfocused and underdeveloped .
Big Fat Waste of Time .
The Movie is what happens when you blow up small potatoes to 10 times their natural size , and it ai n't pretty .
This is not the undisputed worst boxing movie ever , but it 's certainly not a champion - the big loser is the audience .
You really have to wonder how on earth anyone , anywhere could have thought they 'd make audiences guffaw with a script as utterly diabolical as this .
Well-nigh unendurable ... though the picture strains to become cinematic poetry , it remains depressingly prosaic and dull .
Unfortunately , it 's not silly fun unless you enjoy really bad movies .
Not only unfunny , but downright repellent .
K-19 exploits our substantial collective fear of nuclear holocaust to generate cheap Hollywood tension .
Whaley 's determination to immerse you in sheer , unrelenting wretchedness is exhausting .
The plot convolutions ultimately add up to nothing more than jerking the audience 's chain .
Confirms the nagging suspicion that Ethan Hawke would be even worse behind the camera than he is in front of it .
Like you could n't smell this turkey rotting from miles away .
It 's as if you 're watching a movie that was made in 1978 but not released then because it was so weak , and it has been unearthed and released now , when it has become even weaker .
One of the more irritating cartoons you will see this , or any , year .
The film 's few ideas are stretched to the point of evaporation ; the whole central section is one big chase that seems to have no goal and no urgency .
Scores no points for originality , wit , or intelligence .
At its worst , it implodes in a series of very bad special effects .
It takes a certain kind of horror movie to qualify as ` worse than expected , ' but Ghost Ship somehow manages to do exactly that .
Too often , the viewer is n't reacting to humor so much as they are wincing back in repugnance .
In exactly 89 minutes , most of which passed as slowly as if I 'd been sitting naked on an igloo , Formula 51 sank from quirky to jerky to utter turkey .
It 's like every bad idea that 's ever gone into an after-school special compiled in one place , minus those daytime programs ' slickness and sophistication ( and who knew they even had any ? ) .
It 's difficult to imagine the process that produced such a script , but here 's guessing that spray cheese and underarm noises played a crucial role .
A very long movie , dull in stretches , with entirely too much focus on meal preparation and igloo construction .
Not an objectionable or dull film ; it merely lacks everything except good intentions .
A science-fiction pastiche so lacking in originality that if you stripped away its inspirations there would be precious little left .
The words , ` Frankly , my dear , I do n't give a damn , ' have never been more appropriate .
So unremittingly awful that labeling it a dog probably constitutes cruelty to canines .
It 's one pussy-ass world when even killer-thrillers revolve around group therapy sessions .
But the power of these ( subjects ) is obscured by the majority of the film that shows a stationary camera on a subject that could be mistaken for giving a public oration , rather than contributing to a film 's narrative .
Paid In Full is so stale , in fact , that its most vibrant scene is one that uses clips from Brian De Palma 's Scarface .
This re-do is so dumb and so exploitative in its violence that , ironically , it becomes everything that the rather clumsy original was railing against .
`` The Time Machine '' is a movie that has no interest in itself .
It does n't believe in itself , it has no sense of humor ... it 's just plain bored .
Wince-inducing dialogue , thrift-shop costumes , prosthetic makeup by Silly Putty and Kmart blue-light-special effects all conspire to test Trekkie loyalty .
Do n't be fooled by the impressive cast list - Eye See You is pure junk .
Not since Freddy Got Fingered has a major release been so painful to sit through .
( A ) shapeless blob of desperate entertainment .
Given how heavy-handed and portent-heavy it is , this could be the worst thing Soderbergh has ever done .
With the exception of some fleetingly amusing improvisations by Cedric the Entertainer as Perry 's boss , there is n't a redeeming moment here .
( director ) O'Fallon manages to put some lovely pictures up on the big screen , but his skill at telling a story -- he also contributed to the screenplay -- falls short .
No one but a convict guilty of some truly heinous crime should have to sit through The Master of Disguise .
It 's slow -- very , very slow .
Stealing Harvard is evidence that the Farrelly Bros. -- Peter and Bobby -- and their brand of screen comedy are wheezing to an end , along with Green 's half-hearted movie career .
I do n't think I laughed out loud once .
And when you 're talking about a slapstick comedy , that 's a pretty big problem .
Slapstick buffoonery can tickle many a preschooler 's fancy , but when it costs a family of four about $ 40 to see a film in theaters , why spend money on a dog like this when you can rent a pedigree instead ?
... turns so unforgivably trite in its last 10 minutes that anyone without a fortified sweet tooth will likely go into sugar shock .
The notion that bombing buildings is the funniest thing in the world goes entirely unexamined in this startlingly unfunny comedy .
My reaction in a word : disappointment .
His last movie was poetically romantic and full of indelible images , but his latest has nothing going for it .
Feels haphazard , as if the writers mistakenly thought they could achieve an air of frantic spontaneity by simply tossing in lots of characters doing silly stuff and stirring the pot .
It can not be enjoyed , even on the level that one enjoys a bad slasher flick , primarily because it is dull .
Yes , dull .
This piece of Channel 5 grade trash is , quite frankly , an insult to the intelligence of the true genre enthusiast .
A bloated gasbag thesis grotesquely impressed by its own gargantuan aura of self-importance ...
As A Rumor of Angels reveals itself to be a sudsy tub of supernatural hokum , not even Ms. Redgrave 's noblest efforts can redeem it from hopeless sentimentality .
Has all the depth of a wading pool .
The so-inept - it 's - surreal dubbing ( featuring the voices of Glenn Close , Regis Philbin and Breckin Meyer ) brings back memories of cheesy old Godzilla flicks .
... the movie is just a plain old monster .
Professionally speaking , it 's tempting to jump ship in January to avoid ridiculous schlock like this shoddy suspense thriller .
Nelson 's brutally unsentimental approach ... sucks the humanity from the film , leaving behind an horrific but weirdly unemotional spectacle .
Dull , lifeless , and amateurishly assembled .
It 's a bad thing when a movie has about as much substance as its end credits blooper reel .
This is a shameless sham , calculated to cash in on the popularity of its stars .
Suffocated by its fussy script and uptight characters , this musty adaptation is all the more annoying since it 's been packaged and sold back to us by Hollywood .
There are plot holes big enough for Shamu the killer whale to swim through .
What is 100 % missing here is a script of even the most elemental literacy , an inkling of genuine wit , and anything resembling acting .
It 's everything you do n't go to the movies for .
The affectionate loopiness that once seemed congenital to Demme 's perspective has a tough time emerging from between the badly dated cutesy-pie mystery scenario and the newfangled Hollywood post-production effects .
For all its technical virtuosity , the film is so mired in juvenile and near-xenophobic pedagogy that it 's enough to make one pine for the day when Godard can no longer handle the rigors of filmmaking .
... plot holes so large and obvious a marching band might as well be stomping through them in clown clothes , playing a college football fight song on untuned instruments .
So devoid of any kind of intelligible story that it makes films like XXX and Collateral Damage seem like thoughtful treatises
Dragonfly has no atmosphere , no tension -- nothing but Costner , flailing away .
Nonsensical , dull `` cyber-horror '' flick is a grim , hollow exercise in flat scares and bad acting .
Instead of hiding Pinocchio from critics , Miramax should have hidden it from everyone .
Manages to be both repulsively sadistic and mundane .
A great ensemble cast ca n't lift this heartfelt enterprise out of the familiar .
There ought to be a directing license , so that Ed Burns can have his revoked .
Green might want to hang onto that ski mask , as robbery may be the only way to pay for his next project .
A lackluster , unessential sequel to the classic Disney adaptation of J.M. Barrie 's Peter Pan .
Samira Makhmalbaf 's new film Blackboards is much like the ethos of a stream of consciousness , although , it 's unfortunate for the viewer that the thoughts and reflections coming through are torpid and banal
In the end , the movie collapses on its shaky foundation despite the best efforts of director Joe Carnahan .
Sticky sweet sentimentality , clumsy plotting and a rosily myopic view of life in the WWII-era Mississippi Delta undermine this adaptation .
Partway through watching this saccharine , Easter-egg-colored concoction , you realize that it is made up of three episodes of a rejected TV show .
As ` chick flicks ' go , this one is pretty miserable , resorting to string-pulling rather than legitimate character development and intelligent plotting .
The only excitement comes when the credits finally roll and you get to leave the theater .
The most hopelessly monotonous film of the year , noteworthy only for the gimmick of being filmed as a single unbroken 87-minute take .
Deadeningly dull , mired in convoluted melodrama , nonsensical jargon and stiff-upper-lip laboriousness .
A misogynistic piece of filth that attempts to pass itself off as hip , young adult entertainment .
On the whole , the movie lacks wit , feeling and believability to compensate for its incessant coarseness and banality .
Makes for a pretty unpleasant viewing experience .
Very bad .
Stultifyingly , dumbfoundingly , mind-numbingly bad .
The Man From Elysian Fields is a cold , bliss-less work that groans along thinking itself some important comment on how life throws us some beguiling curves .
Trite , banal , cliched , mostly inoffensive .
Mattei is tiresomely grave and long-winded , as if circularity itself indicated profundity .
Nothing in Waking Up in Reno ever inspired me to think of its inhabitants as anything more than markers in a screenplay .
It all feels like a Monty Python sketch gone horribly wrong .
Like being trapped at a perpetual frat party ... How can something so gross be so boring ?
This is so bad .
The heavy-handed film is almost laughable as a consequence .
The humor is n't as sharp , the effects not as innovative , nor the story as imaginative as in the original .
Even horror fans will most likely not find what they 're seeking with Trouble Every Day ; the movie lacks both thrills and humor .
comes off like a rejected ABC Afterschool Special , freshened up by the dunce of a Screenwriting 101 class .
The story loses its bite in a last-minute happy ending that 's even less plausible than the rest of the picture .
In a normal screen process , these bromides would be barely enough to sustain an interstitial program on the Discovery Channel .
Watching Haneke 's film is , aptly enough , a challenge and a punishment .
Her film is unrelentingly claustrophobic and unpleasant .
A depressing confirmation of everything those of us who do n't object to the description `` unelected '' have suspected all along : George W. Bush is an incurious , uncharismatic , overgrown frat boy with a mean streak a mile wide .
Do we really need a 77-minute film to tell us exactly why a romantic relationship between a 15-year-old boy and a 40-year-old woman does n't work ?
Do n't expect any surprises in this checklist of teamwork cliches ...
Just another fish-out-of-water story that barely stays afloat .
If you 're not into the Pokemon franchise , this fourth animated movie in four years wo n't convert you -- or even keep your eyes open .
It 's neither as romantic nor as thrilling as it should be .
... a haunting vision , with images that seem more like disturbing hallucinations .
But in its child-centered , claustrophobic context , it can be just as frightening and disturbing -- even punishing .
It took 19 predecessors to get THIS ?
Shamelessly sappy and , worse , runs away from its own provocative theme .
The Ring just left me cold and wet like I was out in the Seattle drizzle without rainwear .
The film seems a dead weight .
For anyone who grew up on Disney 's 1950 Treasure Island , or remembers the 1934 Victor Fleming classic , this one feels like an impostor .
Meandering , sub-aquatic mess : It 's so bad it 's good , but only if you slide in on a freebie .
The ending is a cop-out .
The overall effect is so completely inane that one would have to be mighty bored to even think of staying with this for more than , say , ten ... make that three minutes .
Most of the supporting characters in Eastwood films are weak , as are most of the subplots .
This one 's weaker than most .
The actors do n't inhabit their roles -- they 're trapped by them , forced to change behavior in bizarre unjustified fashion and spout dialog that consists mostly of platitudes .
The editing is chaotic , the photography grainy and badly focused , the writing unintentionally hilarious , the direction unfocused , the performances as wooden .
When ( De Palma 's ) bad , he 's really bad , and Femme Fatale ranks with the worst he has done .
The only thing worse than your substandard , run-of-the-mill Hollywood picture is an angst-ridden attempt to be profound .
Imagine a really bad community theater production of West Side Story without the songs .
Soul is what 's lacking in every character in this movie and , subsequently , the movie itself .
A one-trick pony whose few T&A bits still ca n't save itself from being unoriginal , unfunny and unrecommendable .
Proves that a movie about goodness is not the same thing as a good movie .
This overproduced and generally disappointing effort is n't likely to rouse the Rush Hour crowd .
If Shayamalan wanted to tell a story about a man who loses his faith , why did n't he just do it , instead of using bad sci-fi as window dressing ?
While the film misfires at every level , the biggest downside is the paucity of laughter in what 's supposed to be a comedy .
Audiences can be expected to suspend their disbelief only so far -- and that does not include the 5 o'clock shadow on the tall wooden kid as he skips off to school .
To imagine the life of Harry Potter as a martial arts adventure told by a lobotomized Woody Allen is to have some idea of the fate that lies in store for moviegoers lured to the mediocrity that is Kung Pow : Enter the Fist .
Credibility levels are low and character development a non-starter .
This is a throwaway , junk-food movie whose rap soundtrack was better tended to than the film itself .
... with the candy-like taste of it fading faster than 25-cent bubble gum , I realized this is a throwaway movie that wo n't stand the test of time .
After that , it just gets stupid and maudlin .
He has not learnt that storytelling is what the movies are about .
The film is a travesty of the genre and even as spoof takes itself too seriously .
The Piano Teacher is the sort of movie that discourages American audiences from ever wanting to see another foreign film .
So what is the point ?
Some , like Ballistic , arrive stillborn ... looking like the beaten , well-worn video box cover of seven years into the future .
B. ) That sure is pathetic !
A sermonizing and lifeless paean to teenage dullards .
Lame , haphazard teen comedy .
This miserable excuse of a movie runs on empty , believing Flatbush machismo will get it through .
It would n't be my preferred way of spending 100 minutes or $ 7.00 .
I hated every minute of it .
It 's just incredibly dull .
Shadyac shoots his film like an M. Night Shyamalan movie , and he frequently maintains the same snail 's pace ; he just forgot to add any genuine tension .
The story 's so preposterous that I did n't believe it for a second , despite the best efforts of everyone involved .
It is a comedy that 's not very funny and an action movie that is not very thrilling ( and an uneasy alliance , at that ) .
You 'll have more fun setting fire to yourself in the parking lot .
You 'll be more entertained getting hit by a bus .
The Sum of All Fears is almost impossible to follow -- and there 's something cringe-inducing about seeing an American football stadium nuked as pop entertainment .
focuses on Joan 's raging hormones and sledgehammers the audience with Spanish inquisitions about her `` madness '' so much that I became mad that I wasted 123 minutes and $ 9.50 on this 21st century torture device .
This series should have died long ago , but they keep bringing it back another day as punishment for paying money to see the last James Bond movie .
No reason for anyone to invest their hard-earned bucks into a movie which obviously did n't invest much into itself either .
A boring , wincingly cute and nauseatingly politically correct cartoon guaranteed to drive anyone much over age 4 screaming from the theater .
The only way this supernatural snore-fest could give anyone a case of the frights is if they were put to sleep by the movie and had a nightmare .
The film would work much better as a video installation in a museum , where viewers would be free to leave .
Not even the Hanson Brothers can save it
A sour , nasty offering .
Feels like one of those contrived , only-in - Hollywood productions where name actors deliver big performances created for the sole purpose of generating Oscar talk .
Obstacles are too easily overcome and there is n't much in the way of character development in the script .
Do not , under any circumstances , consider taking a child younger than middle school age to this wallow in crude humor .
Nothing debases a concept comedy quite like the grinding of bad ideas , and Showtime is crammed full of them .
Neither funny nor suspenseful nor particularly well-drawn .
` Enigma ' is a good name for a movie this delibrately obtuse and unapproachable .
A waste of good performances .
A dreary , incoherent , self-indulgent mess of a movie in which a bunch of pompous windbags drone on inanely for two hours ... a cacophony of pretentious , meaningless prattle .
Like so many other allegedly scary movies , it gets so tangled up in The Twist that it chokes the energy right out of the very audience it seeks to frighten .
Just like Hearst 's enormous yacht , it 's slow and unwieldy and takes a long time to reach its destination .
There is not a character in the movie with a shred of plausibility , not an event that is believable , not a confrontation that is not staged , not a moment that is not false .
Lacks heart , depth and , most of all , purpose .
The premise is in extremely bad taste , and the film 's supposed insights are so poorly thought-out and substance-free that even a high school senior taking his or her first psychology class could dismiss them .
This time Kaufman 's imagination has failed him .
A didactic and dull documentary glorifying software anarchy .
New Best Friend should n't have gone straight to video ; it should have gone straight to a Mystery Science Theater 3000 video .
Began life as a computer game , then morphed into a movie -- a bad one , of course .
Godawful boring slug of a movie .
Vile and tacky are the two best adjectives to describe Ghost Ship .
But this costly dud is a far cry from either the book or the beloved film .
Although based on a real-life person , John , in the movie , is a rather dull person to be stuck with for two hours .
With Spy Kids 2 : The Island of Lost Dreams writer/director/producer Robert Rodriguez has cobbled together a film that feels like a sugar high gone awry .
A dreadful live-action movie .
All I can say is fuhgeddaboutit .
Every bit as bogus as most Disney live action family movies are -- no real plot , no real conflict , no real point .
Spousal abuse is a major problem in contemporary society , but the film reduces this domestic tragedy to florid melodrama .
Oedekerk wrote Patch Adams , for which he should not be forgiven .
Why he was given free reign over this project -- he wrote , directed , starred and produced -- is beyond me .
I cry for I Spy -- or I would if this latest and laziest imaginable of all vintage-TV spinoffs were capable of engendering an emotional response of any kind .
A boring , formulaic mix of serial killers and stalk 'n' slash .
Writhing under dialogue like ` You 're from two different worlds ' and ` Tonight the maid is a lie and this , this is who you are , ' this schlock-filled fairy tale hits new depths of unoriginality and predictability .
... too slow , too boring , and occasionally annoying .
Schmaltzy and unfunny , Adam Sandler 's cartoon about Hanukkah is numbingly bad , Little Nicky bad , 10 Worst List bad .
Scotland , Pa. is a strangely drab romp .
Too loud , too long and too frantic by half , Die Another Day suggests that the Bond franchise has run into a creative wall that 007 can not fly over , tunnel under or barrel through .
... the sum of the parts equals largely a confused mediocrity .
Julia is played with exasperating blandness by Laura Regan .
This is n't just the CliffsNotes version of Nicholas Nickleby , it 's the CliffsNotes with pages missing .
Better at putting you to sleep than a sound machine .
Bullock 's complete lack of focus and ability quickly derails the film
So stupid , so ill-conceived , so badly drawn , it created whole new levels of ugly .
Some of Seagal 's action pictures are guilty pleasures , but this one is so formulaic that it seems to be on auto-pilot .
When a set of pre-shooting guidelines a director came up with for his actors turns out to be cleverer , better written and of considerable more interest than the finished film , that 's a bad sign .
A very bad sign .
Rather , you 'll have to wrestle disbelief to the ground and then apply the chloroform-soaked handkerchief .
Let 's cut to the consumer-advice bottom line : Stay home .
Even the unwatchable Soapdish is more original .
It 's not horrible , just horribly mediocre .
This self-infatuated goofball is far from the only thing wrong with the clumsy comedy Stealing Harvard , but he 's the most obvious one .
Extremely dumb .
Extremely boring .
We never really feel involved with the story , as all of its ideas remain just that : abstract ideas .
How did it ever get made ?
Matthew McConaughey tries , and fails , to control the screen with swaggering machismo and over-the-top lunacy .
How on earth , or anywhere else , did director Ron Underwood manage to blow $ 100 million on this ?
The plot grinds on with yawn-provoking dullness .
It 's never a good sign when a film 's star spends the entirety of the film in a coma .
It does n't help that the director and cinematographer Stephen Kazmierski shoot on grungy video , giving the whole thing a dirty , tasteless feel .
Desperately unfunny when it tries to makes us laugh and desperately unsuspenseful when it tries to make us jump out of our seats .
John McTiernan 's botched remake may be subtler than Norman Jewison 's 1975 ultraviolent futuristic corporate-sports saga .
As ( the characters ) get more depressed , the story gets more tiresome , especially as it continues to mount a conspicuous effort to be profound .
This idea has lost its originality ... and neither star appears very excited at rehashing what was basically a one-joke picture .
Nothing more than a mediocre trifle .
A turgid little history lesson , humourless and dull .
Too silly to be frightening , too stolid to be funny , it projects the same lazy affability as its nominal star , David Arquette .
Trivial where it should be profound , and hyper-cliched where it should be sincere .
It would be hard to think of a recent movie that has worked this hard to achieve this little fun .
... watching this film nearly provoked me to take my own life .
Made by jackasses for jackasses .
Bartleby is a one-joke movie , and a bad joke at that .
Philip K. Dick must be turning in his grave , along with my stomach .
It 's difficult to say whether The Tuxedo is more boring or embarrassing -- I 'm prepared to call it a draw .
A real clunker .
As written by Michael Berg and Michael J. Wilson from a story by Wilson , this relentless , all-wise-guys-all-the-time approach tries way too hard and gets tiring in no time at all .
Choppy editing and too many repetitive scenes spoil what could have been an important documentary about stand-up comedy .
If you 're looking for comedy to be served up , better look elsewhere .
An instant candidate for worst movie of the year .
Like a tone-deaf singer at a benefit concert , John Q. is a bad movie appearing on behalf of a good cause .
Adam Sandler is to Gary Cooper what a gnat is to a racehorse .
Now it 's a bad , embarrassing movie .
Wait for video -- and then do n't rent it .
Too much of this well-acted but dangerously slow thriller feels like a preamble to a bigger , more complicated story , one that never materializes .
When a film is created SOLELY because it 's a marketable product , soulless and ugly movies like this are the result .
Unfortunately , Heartbreak Hospital wants to convey the same kind of haughtiness in its own sketchy material but this territory has already been explored previously with better aplomb and sardonic wit .
But as a movie , it 's a humorless , disjointed mess .
The backyard battles you staged with your green plastic army men were more exciting and almost certainly made more sense .
These people would n't know subtle characterization if it put on a giant furry monster costume and then gave them a lapdance .
Marisa Tomei is good , but Just A Kiss is just a mess .
Opens at a funeral , ends on the protagonist 's death bed and does n't get much livelier in the three hours in between .
Flaccid drama and exasperatingly slow journey .
Suffers from rambling , repetitive dialogue and the visual drabness endemic to digital video .
All the characters are stereotypes , and their interaction is numbingly predictable .
A trashy , exploitative , thoroughly unpleasant experience .
Ridiculous .
These are names to remember , in order to avoid them in the future .
If this is the resurrection of the Halloween franchise , it would have been better off dead .
the story itself is uninteresting , and the songs are painfully undistinguished : They Might Be Giants ' So to Be One of Us may be the most tuneless tune ever composed .
The title 's lameness should clue you in on how bad the movie is .
Any one episode of The Sopranos would send this ill-conceived folly to sleep with the fishes .
Denzel Washington 's efforts are sunk by all the sanctimony .
If this holiday movie is supposed to be a gift , somebody unwrapped it early , took out all the good stuff , and left behind the crap ( literally ) .
Rambles on in a disjointed , substandard fashion from one poorly executed action sequence to the next .
Guided more by intellect than heart , his story flattens instead of sharpens .
All the well-meaningness in the world ca n't erase the fact that The Believer feels like a 12-Step Program for the Jewish Nazi .
But here 's the real damn : It is n't funny , either .
What you get with Empire is a movie you 've seen many times before , repackaged as new material because there is a Latino in the lead .
De Niro looks bored , Murphy recycles Murphy , and you mentally add Showtime to the pile of Hollywood dreck that represents nothing more than the art of the deal .
If Melville is creatively a great whale , this film is canned tuna .
Just one more collection of penis , breast and flatulence gags in search of a story .
The acting is stiff , the story lacks all trace of wit , the sets look like they were borrowed from Gilligan 's Island -- and the CGI Scooby might well be the worst special-effects creation of the year .
Enough trivializes an important crisis , reduces it to an almost comic embarrassment .
The makers have forsaken the entertaining elements of the original and , instead , rehash old jokes and leave any life at the doorstep .
Needless to say , the dramatics that follow are utter hooey .
Madonna still ca n't act a lick .
A recipe for cinematic disaster ... part Quentin Tarantino , part Guy Ritchie , and part 1960s spy spoof , it 's all bad .
When she speaks , her creepy Egyptian demigod voice is as computer processed and overproduced as it was in her music .
Much of what is meant to be ` inspirational ' and ` uplifting ' is simply distasteful to audiences not already sharing ( the movie 's ) mindset .
For me , this opera is n't a favorite , so it 's a long time before the fat lady sings .
Looks like a high school film project completed the day before it was due .
Abandons all pretense of creating historical context and waltzes off into a hectic soap about the ups and downs of the heavy breathing between the two artists .
Even die-hard fans of Japanese animation ... will find this one a challenge .
Filmmakers have to dig deep to sink this low .
Fortunately for all involved , this movie is likely to disappear as quickly as an ice cube thrown into a pot of boiling water .
Automatically pegs itself for the straight-to-video sci-fi rental shelf .
The film is like a series of beginnings and middles that never take off .
It 's badly acted , blandly directed , and could have been scripted by someone who just graduated from elementary school .
The angst-ridden , affluent slacker characters are more grating than engaging .
An ungainly , comedy-deficient , B-movie rush job ...
A gob of drivel so sickly sweet , even the eager consumers of Moore 's pasteurized ditties will retch it up like rancid crème brûlée .
A baffling misfire , and possibly the weakest movie ( Woody Allen ) has made in the last twenty years .
This film looks like it was produced in 1954 , shelved for 48 years , and repackaged for a 2002 audience .
There is not an ounce of honesty in the entire production .
This extremely unfunny film clocks in at 80 minutes , but feels twice as long .
Undone by its overly complicated and derivative screenplay , the glacier-paced direction and the stereotypical characters .
The sort of movie that gives tastelessness a bad rap .
The cold and dreary weather is a perfect metaphor for the movie itself , which contains few laughs and not much drama .
ordinary melodrama that is heavy on religious symbols but wafer-thin on dramatic substance
As with too many studio pics , plot mechanics get in the way of what should be the lighter-than-air adventure .
would seem to have a lock on the title of ugliest movie of the year .
Calling this movie brainless would be paying it a compliment : it 's more like entertainment for trolls .
... just a big mess of a movie , full of images and events , but no tension or surprise .
As elegantly crafted as it often is , Anderson 's movie is essentially a one-trick pony that , hampered by an undeveloped script , ultimately pulls up lame .
Splashes its drama all over the screen , subjecting its audience and characters to action that feels not only manufactured , but also so false you can see the filmmakers ' puppet strings .
... has virtually no script at all ...
Bad beyond belief and ridiculous beyond description .
The cartoon that is n't really good enough to be on afternoon TV is now a movie that is n't really good enough to be in theaters .
If this is the Danish idea of a good time , prospective tourists might want to consider a different destination -- some jolly country embroiled in a bloody civil war , perhaps .
Formula 51 is so trite that even Yu 's high-energy action stylings ca n't break through the stupor .
This may be the dumbest , sketchiest movie on record about an aspiring writer 's coming-of-age .
A free-for-all of half-baked thoughts , clumsily used visual tricks and self-indulgent actor moments .
Apallingly absurd ... the chemistry or lack thereof between Newton and Wahlberg could turn an Imax theater into a 9 '' black and white portable TV .
The smug , oily demeanor that Donovan adopts throughout the stupidly named Pipe Dream is just repulsive .
Others may find it migraine-inducing , despite Moore 's attempts at whimsy and spoon feeding .
It 's hard not to feel you 've just watched a feature-length video game with some really heavy back story .
I watched the brainless insanity of No Such Thing with mounting disbelief .
This limp gender-bender-baller from a first-time director and rookie screenwriter steals wholesale from that 1982 's Tootsie , forgetting only to retain a single laugh .
fear dot com is so rambling and disconnected it never builds any suspense .
It feels like a community theater production of a great Broadway play : Even at its best , it will never hold a candle to the original .
National Lampoon 's Van Wilder could be the worst thing to come out of National Lampoon since Class Reunion
Ecks this one off your must-see list .
The Irwins emerge unscathed , but the fictional footage is unconvincing and criminally badly acted .
No , it 's the repetition of said behavior , and so Children of the Century is more mindless love than mad , more grating and boring than anything else .
This is n't a `` Friday '' worth waiting for .
I wish I could say `` Thank God It 's Friday '' , but the truth of the matter is I was glad when it was over .
The film makes a tragic error by going on for too long , trying to mirror every subsequent event in Chinese history : war , revolution , Communism , etc. .
The movie is as far as you can get from racy , to the point where it almost stops the blood flow to your brain ; it has a dull , costumey feel .
Even by dumb action-movie standards , Ballistic : Ecks vs. Sever is a dumb action movie .
What will , most likely , turn out to be the most repellent movie of 2002 .
Lacking gravitas , MacDowell is a placeholder for grief , and ergo this sloppy drama is an empty vessel .
Leave these Flowers unpicked -- they 're dead on the vine .
De Niro may enjoy the same free ride from critics afforded to Clint Eastwood in the lazy Bloodwork .
But like Bruce Springsteen 's gone-to-pot Asbury Park , New Jersey , this sad-sack waste of a movie is a City of ruins .
It 's so full of wrong choices that all you can do is shake your head in disbelief -- and worry about what classic Oliver Parker intends to mangle next time .
The Weight of Water uses water as a metaphor for subconscious desire , but this leaky script barely stays afloat .
The only element of suspense is whether the movie will change titles or distributors again before the closing credits roll .
I Spy is an embarrassment , a monotonous , disjointed jumble of borrowed plot points and situations .
Afraid to pitch into farce , yet only half-hearted in its spy mechanics , All the Queen 's Men is finally just one long drag .
Watching it is rather like an overlong visit from a large group of your relatives .
Murder By Numbers is like a couple of mediocre TV-movie - of-the-week films clumsily stuck together .
Showtime is one of the hapless victims of the arrogant `` if we put together a wry white man and a chatty black man and give them guns , the movie will be funny '' syndrome .
Do n't waste your money .
You 're better off staying home and watching The X-Files .
A movie far more cynical and lazy than anything a fictitious Charlie Kaufman might object to .
Could The Country Bears really be as bad as its trailers ?
If High Crimes were any more generic it would have a universal product code instead of a title .
The movie makes absolutely no sense .
Its underlying mythology is a hodgepodge of inconsistencies that pose the question : Since when did dumb entertainment have to be this dumb ?
Had anyone here done anything remotely intelligent , we all could have stopped watching long ago .
All these developments and challenges facing Santa weigh down the plot so heavily that they drain all the film of its energy and needlessly strain credibility .
The unceasing sadism is so graphically excessive , the director just ends up exposing his own obsession .
The story ... is moldy and obvious .
It 's drained of life in an attempt to be sober and educational , and yet it 's so devoid of realism that its lack of whistles and bells just makes it obnoxious and stiff .
Suffocated at conception by its Munchausen-by-proxy mum .
Gangs of New York is an unapologetic mess , whose only saving grace is that it ends by blowing just about everything up .
An overblown clunker full of bad jokes , howling cliches and by-the-numbers action sequences .
Without a strong script and energetic acting , Dogma films can produce the same sleep-inducing effects as watching your neighbor 's home videos .
It 's an awfully derivative story .
About as cutting-edge as Pet Rock : The Movie .
It 's painful .
An atonal estrogen opera that demonizes feminism while gifting the most sympathetic male of the piece with a nice vomit bath at his wedding .
Unfortunately , the picture failed to capture me .
I found it slow , drab , and bordering on melodramatic .
A lousy movie that 's not merely unwatchable , but also unlistenable .
Watching the film is like reading a Times Portrait of Grief that keeps shifting focus to the journalist who wrote it .
`` An entire film about researchers quietly reading dusty old letters . ''
What 's at stake in this film is nothing more than an obsolete , if irritating , notion of class .
John Leguizamo may be a dramatic actor -- just not in this movie .
The sequel has turned completely and irrevocably bizarre to the point of utter nonsense .
The Master Of Disaster - it 's a piece of dreck disguised as comedy .
The stupidest , most insulting movie of 2002 's first quarter .
A film so tedious that it is impossible to care whether that boast is true or not .
Bad Company leaves a bad taste , not only because of its bad-luck timing , but also the staleness of its script .
Disturbingly superficial in its approach to the material .
( U ) nrelentingly stupid .
